 Peruvian politician (1891–1978) This article may be expanded with text translated from the corresponding article in Spanish . (December 2011) Click [show] for important translation instructions. View a machine-translated version of the Spanish article. Machine translation, like DeepL or Google Translate , is a useful starting point for translations, but translators must revise errors as necessary and confirm that the translation is accurate, rather than simply copy-pasting machine-translated text into the English Wikipedia. Consider adding a topic to this template: there are already 5,201 articles in the main category , and specifying |topic= will aid in categorization. Do not translate text that appears unreliable or low-quality. If possible, verify the text with references provided in the foreign-language article. You must provide copyright attribution in the edit summary accompanying your translation by providing an interlanguage link to the source of your translation. A model attribution edit summary is Content in this edit is translated from the existing Spanish Wikipedia article at [[:es:Nazario Chávez Aliaga]]; see its history for attribution. You should also add the template {{Translated|es|Nazario Chávez Aliaga}} to the talk page . For more guidance, see Wikipedia:Translation . This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Nazario Chávez Aliaga" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( June 2020 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this template message ) Nazario Chávez Aliaga (1891–1978) was a Peruvian journalist, politician and poet. Chávez Aliaga played a substantial role in the establishment of Alianza Popular Revolucionaria Americana , the largest political party in Peru from 1930 to the late 1980s, as well as being the publisher of an influential newspaper El Peru . [1] In his later life he served in various political offices including Secretario del Congresso and Secretary General of the Presidency of the Republic (1956-1962). [2] [3] [4] Biography [ edit ] He was born on September 22, 1891 in the town of Huauco (now named Sucre) in the province of Celendin in Cajamarca, Perú. He was professor of literature and Spanish in Colegio San Ramón in Cajamarca. In addition to his teaching, Chavez Aliaga was a journalist and in 1923 started to edit the newspaper El Obrero. This newspaper highlighted ideas of the working class and due to this was closed by the government of Augusto B. Leguía. In spite of this three years later in 1926, Chávez Aliaga returned to journalism as editor of a new newspaper called El Perú which was first published on 28 July 1926. This newspaper allowed Chávez Aliaga to reach the people of Cajamarca both socially and politically. El Perú's content was mixed in that it included articles in favour of policies of Leguía while at the same time reprinted articles by José Carlos Mariátegui from his Amauta magazine. One of these articles that Mariátegui sent to Chávez Aliaga was titled 'On the problem of the Indian'. El Perú showed a clear indigenous tendency and printed articles favoring the protection of the workers and artisans of Cajamarca. Through this newspaper Chávez Aliaga expanded his leadership role in the political arena and highlighted stories such as the restructuring of the most important guild in Cajamarca: The Free Society of Artisans. He also participated in the creation of the Workers Society of Halgayoc, the Workers Society of Bambamarca, the Fraternal Society of Workers in Hualgayoc, and others. It was around these years that a young Victor Raúl Haya de la Torre brought forth his progressive ideas to create a political party that reached all the corners of Perú. He thus reached out to Chávez Aliaga who was a key political leader in Cajamarca. De la torre knew of Chávez Aliaga from his newspaper and through Antenor Orrego. In 1929, Chávez Aliaga was invited to become the general secretary of the Peruvian Aprista Party (APRA) in Cajamarca. He actively promoted the ideas of APRA and participated in uprisings in favor of workers and farmers in the region. Chávez Aliaga became Prefect of Cajamarca. Following a particular uprising, there was a severing of relations between Chávez Aliaga and de la Torre. In a final letter written to Haya de la Torre, Chávez Aliaga indicates that he was left behind by the APRA leader to face government troops without support while de la Torre sailed away. There was a feeling of betrayal as evidenced by this letter. Later, Chávez Aliaga joined the Prado Democratic Movement under the leadership of the eventual president of Perú Manuel Prado Ugarteche. Chávez Aliaga became (1939 - 1945) the Secretary as well as Advisor to the Council of Ministers of the Presidency. In 1950 he was elected to Congress as representative (diputado) from the province of Cutervo; furthermore, he took the post of Secretary for the Chamber of Representatives (Cámara de Diputados). For Manuel Prado Ugarteche's second government (1959 - 1962), Chávez Aliaga was nominated Secretary General of the Presidency of the Republic. He died on November 14, 1978 in Lima, Perú. Family [ edit ] He was married to Teresa Silva Santisteban of Cajamarca. His sons were: Pompeyo Chávez, Romulo Chávez, Raúl Chávez, Carlos M. Chávez; his daughters were: Blanca Chávez, Fabiola Chávez, Josefina Chávez, Ana María Chávez, and Teresa del Socorro Chávez. Hijo ilegítimo: Marcelo Chávez Posada Awards and honors [ edit ] Gran oficial de la Orden El Sol del Perú Comendador de la Orden al Mérito por Servicios Distinguidos del Perú Gran Oficial Servicio Civil del Estado de la República Peruana Gran Placa de la Orden del Tesoro Sagrado del Japón Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany 1960 Works [ edit ] In addition to his very active political life, Chávez Aliaga had a large impact in literature as writer and poet. Among his publications one finds a complete work titled Cajamarca. He authored many books such as Vértice, Huerto de Lilas, Parábolas del Ande, Ideario y Acción Parliamentaria, Liberación, Pensamiento en Función de vida y de Historia. Chávez Aliaga also contributed to various newspapers and magazines both Peruvian and international. Selected publications [ edit ] Chávez, A. N. (1973). Autobigrafía: O La vida de un hombre que se realiza en la historia . Lima: Librería Editorial "Minerva" Miraflores. Other sources [ edit ] Olindo Aliaga Rojas and Gutemberg Aliaga Zegarra (2008) Personajes de la historia sucrense , Cajamarca: Martínez Compañon References [ edit ] ^ Lewis Taylor (2000). "The origins of APRA in Cajamarca, 1928–1935". Bulletin of Latin American Research . 19 (4): 437–459. JSTOR 3339530 . ^ Chávez, A. N. (1973). Autobigrafía: O La vida de un hombre que se realiza en la historia . Lima: Librería Editorial "Minerva" Miraflores. ^ "Personajes: NAZARIO CHÁVEZ ALIAGA, PRECLARO HIJO SUCRENSE" . 20 March 2012. ^ "Resolucion Legislativa No 11788" (PDF) . peru.justia.com. 17 March 1952 . Retrieved 22 June 2020 . Authority control International FAST ISNI VIAF WorldCat National Germany United States Australia Netherlands Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Nazario_Chávez_Aliaga&oldid=1086435516 " Categories : Peruvian journalists Male journalists Peruvian politicians Commanders Crosses of the Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany 1891 births 1978 deaths Peruvian male poets 20th-century Peruvian poets 20th-century male writers 20th-century journalists Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Articles needing translation from Spanish Wikipedia Articles needing additional references from June 2020 All articles needing additional references Use dmy dates from June 2020 Articles with FAST identifiers Articles with ISNI identifiers Articles with VIAF identifiers Articles with WorldCat identifiers Articles with GND identifiers Articles with LCCN identifiers Articles with NLA identifiers Articles with N