 Fourteen stages of spiritual development in Jainism An illustration of the Gunasthanas Guṇasthāna ( Sanskrit : "levels of virtue") are the fourteen stages of spiritual development and growth through which a soul gradually passes before it attains moksha (liberation). [1] According to Jainism , it is a state of soul from a complete dependence on karma to the state of complete dissociation from it. Here the word virtue does not mean an ordinary moral quality, but it stands for the nature of soul — knowledge, belief and conduct. Classification [ edit ] Part of a series on Jainism Jains History Timeline Index Philosophy Anekantavada Cosmology Ahimsa Karma Dharma Mokṣa Kevala Jnana Dravya Tattva Brahmacarya Aparigraha Gunasthana Saṃsāra Ethics Ethics of Jainism Mahavratas (major vows) Ahiṃsā (non-violence) Satya (truth) Asteya (non-stealing) Brahmacarya (chastity) Aparigraha (non-possession) Anuvratas (further vows) Sāmāyika Sallekhana Jain prayers Bhaktamara Stotra Micchami Dukkadam Ṇamōkāra mantra Jai Jinendra Major figures The 24 Tirthankaras Rishabha Pārśva Mahavira Arihant Ganadhara Kundakunda Siddhasena Samantabhadra Haribhadra Yashovijaya Major sects Schools and Branches Digambara Śvētāmbara Jain literature Samayasāra (Digambara) Pravachanasara (Digambara) Agama (Shwetambara) Tattvartha Sutra Dravyasamgraha (Digambara) Kalpa Sūtra (Shwetambara) Uttaradhyayana (Shwetambara) Cīvaka Cintāmaṇi Silappatikaram Valayapathi Festivals Diwali Mahavir Janma Kalyanak Paryushana Samvatsari Pilgrimages Tirth Abu Palitana Girnar Shikharji Shravanabelagola Other Temples Jain flag Jain symbols Parasparopagraho Jivanam Topics list Religion portal v t e The fourteen Gunasthāna represents the soul's gradual manifestation of the innate qualities of knowledge, belief and conduct in a more and more perfect form. [2] [3] Following are the stages of spiritual development: [4] [5] [6] Head Gunasthāna Meaning Belief (Rationality in perception) 1. Mithyātva The stage of wrong believer (Gross ignorance) 2. Sasādana Downfall from right faith 3. Misradrsti Mixed right and wrong belief 4. Avirata samyagdrsti Vowless right belief Minor Vows (Commencement of Right conduct) 5. Deśavirata The stage of partial self-control Right conduct: Mahavratas (Major Vows) 6. Pramattasamyata Slightly imperfect vows 7. Apramatta samyata Perfect vows 8. Apūrvakaraņa New thought-activity 9. Anivāttibādara-sāmparāya Advanced thought-activity (Passions are still occurring) 10. Sukshma samparaya Slightest delusion 11. Upaśānta-kasāya Subsided delusion 12. Ksīna kasāya Destroyed delusion 13. Sayoga kevali Omniscience with vibration 14. Ayoga kevali The stage of omniscience without any activity The Fourteen stages [ edit ] Fourteen stages on the path to liberation 1. Mithyadristi The first stage signifies gross ignorance. [7] If at this stage, a person meditates on his existence, there is a temporary suspension of the following: [8] The first three energies of darsanamohaniya karma (which obstructs right belief) mithyātva samyaga mithyātva samyak prakriti The anantdnubandhi (intensest) type of anger, pride, deceit and greed 2. Sasādana This gunasthāna represents the mental state of the soul in the process or act of falling from right faith. Here sā means "with" and sādana means "exhausted", hence that which is characterised by exhausted faith. [9] 3. Misradrsti Misra literally means mixed. At this stage, a person hovers between certainty and doubt on Right belief. [9] 4 Avirata samyagdrishti When doubts of an individual are removed, he/she reaches this stage and becomes a samyagdrishti (true believer). The doubts may have been removed by meditation or the instruction of a spiritual teacher. [10] 5. Deśavirata Deśa means partial and virata means vow i.e. observance of the partial vows in pursuit of Right conduct. [10] 6. Pramatta virata (slightly imperfect vows) First step of life as a Jain muni (monk). [10] The stage of complete self-discipline, although sometimes brought into wavering through negligence. 7. Apramatta virata (perfect observance of vows) 8. Apurva Karana The stage of one in whom the passions are still occurring in a gross form. 9. Annivrtti Karaņa (advanced thought activity) The stage of one who practices the process called annivrtti karaņa and in whom however the passions are still occurring. 10. Sukshma sāmprāya The stage of one in whom the passions occur in a subtle form. 11. Upaśānta-kasaya The stage of one who has suppressed every passion but still does not possess omniscience. 12. Kshina Moha (Destruction of delusion) The stage of who has annihilated every passion but does not yet possess omniscience. According to the Jain text, Gommatsāra Jīvakanda : That possessionless saint (Nirgrantha), all of whose deluding, passions (Moha Kashaya) are destroyed, and whose thought is clear like the water kept in a pure vessel of crystal Jewel is said by the non-attached (Conquerors) (to be in the 12th stage of) destroyed-delusion, or delusionless (Kshina Kashaya). — Gommatsāra (62) [11] 13. Sayoga Kevali Sa means "with" and yoga refers to the three channels of activity, i.e., mind, speech and body. [12] Kevali is a term used to refer the omniscient beings ( arihantas ). This stage is characterised by the destruction of all inimical ( ghātiā ) karmas and attainment of omniscience. [13] 14. Ayoga Kevali This is the last stage on the Path, and is followed by the soul's destruction of the aghātiā karmas . Those who pass this stage are called siddha and become fully established in Right Faith, Right Knowledge and Right Conduct. [13] The destruction of causes of bondage [ edit ] The whole scheme of gunasthana in Jain philosophy is devised in a logical order according to the principle of decreasing sinfulness and increasing purity. At the first stage, all the five causes of bondage — Irrational beliefs ( mithyatva ), non-restraint ( avirati ), carelessness ( pramada ), passions ( kashaya ) and activities of mind, speech and body ( yoga ) — are in full operation. [14] Irrational beliefs ( mithyatva ) are partially suppressed in the second and third stages, and are fully eliminated in the fourth stage. In stages five and six, non-restraint ( avirati ) is gradually eliminated in stages. From the seventh stage onwards, carelessness is removed and only passions and activity exercise their influence. From the eleventh to the thirteenth all the passions are eliminated and only activity is present. On the last stage, there is no activity, hence no binding of karma. [14] The destruction of karmas [ edit ] Out of the four ghatiya karmas , darsana mohiniya karma (perception deluding karma) is destroyed first in the fourth stage of gunasthana . Caritra mohiniya karma (conduct deluding karma) is destroyed next in the twelfth gunasthana. The remaining three ghatiya karmas (knowledge obstructing karma, perception obstructing karma and energy obstructing karma) are destroyed in the 13th stage and the rest four aghatiya karmas (life-span determining, body determining, status determining and feeling producing karmas) are destroyed in the 14th or the last stage of gunasthana. [15] See also [ edit ] Types of Karma Causes of Karma References [ edit ] Citations [ edit ] ^ Jaini, Padmanabh (1998) p. 141 ^ Jaini 1991 , p. 95. ^ Kuhn, Hermann (2001) p. 186–219 ^ Jain, Vijay K (26 March 2014). Acarya Pujyapada's Istopadesa – the Golden Discourse . p. 14. ISBN 9788190363969 . ^ Jaini, Padmanabh (1998) p. 272–273 ^ Tatia, Nathmal (1994) p. 274–85 ^ Champat Rai Jain 1917 , p. 117. ^ Champat Rai Jain 1917 , p. 41, 118. ^ a b Champat Rai Jain 1917 , p. 118. ^ a b c Champat Rai Jain 1917 , p. 119. ^ Jaini 1927 , p. 46. ^ Champat Rai Jain 1917 , p. 120. ^ a b Champat Rai Jain 1917 , p. 121. ^ a b Kuhn, Hermann (2001) p. 87–88 ^ Jaini, Padmanabh (1998) p. 133 Sources [ edit ] Jaini, Jagmandar-lāl (1927). Gommatsara Jiva-kanda . Alt URL Kuhn, Hermann (2001), Karma, The Mechanism : Create Your Own Fate , Wunstorf, Germany: Crosswind Publishing, ISBN 3-9806211-4-6 Jaini, Padmanabh S. (1998), The Jaina Path of Purification , New Delhi: Motilal Banarsidass, ISBN 81-208-1578-5 Jaini, Padmanabh S. (1991), Gender and Salvation: Jaina Debates on the Spiritual Liberation of Women , University of California Press , ISBN 0-520-06820-3 Tatia, Nathmal (tr.) (1994), Tattvārtha Sūtra: That which Is of Vācaka Umāsvāti (in Sanskrit and English), Lanham, MD: Rowman Altamira, ISBN 0-7619-8993-5 Champat Rai Jain (1917), The Practical Path , The Central Jaina Publishing House v t e Jainism topics Gods Tirthankara Ganadhara Arihant Philosophy Ethics Ahimsa Epistemology Kevala Jñāna Jaina logic Anekāntavāda Jain cosmology Siddhashila Naraka Heavenly beings Karma Types Causes Gunasthana Dravya Jīva Ajiva Pudgala Dharma Tattva Asrava Bandha Samvara Nirjara Mokṣa Death Saṃsāra Ratnatraya Kashaya Branches Digambara Mula Sangha Balatkara Gana Kashtha Sangha Taran Panth Bispanthi Terapanth Yapaniya Kanji Panth Śvētāmbara Murtipujaka Gaccha Kharatara Tapa Tristutik Sthānakavāsī Terapanth Practices Sallekhana Meditation Sāmāyika Monasticism Vegetarianism Fasting Rituals Festivals Paryushana Kshamavani Mahamastakabhisheka Upadhan Tapas Pratikramana Literature Agama Pravachanasara Shatkhandagama Kasayapahuda Mantra Namokar Mantra Bhaktamara Stotra Tattvartha Sutra Samayasāra Aptamimamsa Kalpa Sūtra Uttaradhyayana Symbols Jain flag Siddhachakra Ashtamangala Shrivatsa Nandavarta Auspicious dreams Swastika Ascetics Digambara monk Aryika Kshullak Pattavali Acharya Scholars Nalini Balbir Colette Caillat Chandabai John E. Cort Paul Dundas Virchand Gandhi Hermann Jacobi Champat Rai Jain Padmanabh Jaini Jeffery D. Long Hampa Nagarajaiah Bal Patil Jinendra Varni Community Śrāvaka Sarak Tamil Organisations Digambar Jain Mahasabha Vishwa Jain Sangathan JAINA Jainism in India Bundelkhand Delhi Goa Gujarat Haryana Karnataka North Kerala Maharashtra Mumbai Rajasthan Tamil Nadu Uttar Pradesh Overseas Africa Australia Belgium Canada Europe Hong Kong Japan Pakistan Singapore Southeast Asia United States Jainism and Buddhism Hinduism Islam Sikhism Non-creationism Dynasties and empires Chalukya Ganga Hoysala Ikshvaku Kadamba Kalinga Maurya Pandya Rashtrakuta Santara Related History Timeline Pañca-Parameṣṭhi Pratima Śalākāpuruṣa Tirtha Samavasarana Jain calendar Samvatsari Panch Kalyanaka Statue of Ahimsa Temple Stupa Sculpture Art Law Nigoda Jain terms and concepts Sexual differences Lists List of Jains List of Jain temples List of Jain ascetics List of Digambar Jain ascetics Topics List (index) Navboxes Gods Literature Monks & nuns Scholars Temples America Bengal Religion portal Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Gunasthana&oldid=1099903311 " Category : Jain philosophical concepts Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Use dmy dates from February 2016 Use Indian English from February 2016 All Wikipedia articles written in Indian English CS1 Sanskrit-languag