 British comic strip Colonel Crackpot's Circus was a British comic strip, published from 1960 until 1963 in The Beano . It was the first Beano comic strip drawn by Malcolm Judge , who later went on to draw Billy Whizz and Ball Boy for the same comic, as well as The Numskulls for The Beezer . The strip was about a circus and the slapstick adventures of the circus folk and often involved Colonel Crackpot (the circus ringleader ) trying not to pay his workforce what they were worth. In its Beano incarnation the main characters were Colonel Crackpot (the ringleader), Charlie Globes (the strong man, his name being a play on Charles Atlas ), and Cynthia the fat lady. [1] The comic strip was later revived in The Dandy , under the title Pinky's Crackpot Circus , in a strip drawn by Nick Brennan and later by Gary Northfield . This revival first appeared in October 2003. Characters during this time included Pinky the ringleader, Spanky and Blotto the clowns, Brenda the bearded lady, Rick the human cannonball, Thomas the tightrope walker, Lenny the lion tamer, and Mehmet the elephant. References [ edit ] ^ http://www.beano.com/retro-beano/colonel-crackpot's-circus?decade=1960 [ permanent dead link ] v t e The Dandy Final strips Bananaman Blinky Desperate Dan Keyhole Kate The Numskulls Retro Active Former strips Addie and Hermy Bad Max Barney Boko Beryl the Peril Black Bob Blinky The Bogies Bully Beef and Chips Colonel Crackpot's Circus Corporal Clott Cuddles and Dimples Fiddle O Diddle Freddy the Fearless Fly Harry Hill's Real Life Adventures in TV Land Helpful Henry Hyde and Shriek Jak and Todd The Jocks and the Geordies Jonah Korky the Cat Marvo the Wonder Chicken Mr. Meecher, the Uncool Teacher My Own Genie Owen Goal P5 / Class Act Peter's Pocket Grandpa Potsworth & Co. Puss 'n' Boots The Smasher Strange Hill Winker Watson Writers and Artists Barrie Appleby Nigel Auchterlounie Leo Baxendale Gordon Bell Basil Blackaller Paddy Brennan Nick Brennan Sid Burgon Wilbur Dawbarn Karl Dixon Lorenzo Etherington Andy Fanton John Geering Ian Gray Denis Gifford Charles Grigg Ken H. Harrison Harry Hill Allan Morley David Mostyn Robert Nixon Gary Northfield David Parkins Nigel Parkinson Tom Paterson Jim Petrie Ken Reid Jon Rushby Duncan Scott Jamie Smart Ron Smith Lew Stringer David Sutherland Dudley D. Watkins Stevie White Adaptations Bananaman (1983–1986) Grandpa in My Pocket (2009–2014) See also The Dandy Annual The Desperate Dan Book Fun Size Dandy Hoot Nutty v t e DC Thomson comics Currently running comics The Beano Commando Fun Section in The Sunday Post Adventure comics Adventure Bullet Buddy Champ Commando The Crunch The Hornet The Hotspur The Rover The Skipper Spike Starblazer The Vanguard The Victor Warlord The Wizard Girls' comics Bunty Judy Mandy Nikki Humour comics The Beano The Beezer Buzz Classics from the Comics Cracker The Dandy EPIC Magazine Fun Size Comics Hoot The Magic Comic Nutty Plug Sparky The Topper Pre-school comics Bimbo The Magic Comic Twinkle Notable strips Alf Tupper Baby Crockett Bananaman The Bash Street Kids Beryl the Peril Black Bob Biffo the Bear Big Eggo The Broons Calamity James Cuddles and Dimples Dennis the Menace Desperate Dan Ginger Gnasher Ivy the Terrible Jonah Keyhole Kate Korky the Cat Little Plum Lord Snooty Matt Braddock Mickey the Monkey Minnie the Minx Nero and Zero The Numskulls Oor Wullie Pansy Potter Send for Kelly Roger the Dodger Tricky Dicky Willy Nilly Winker Watson Wilson the Wonder Athlete Wolf of Kabul Comic annuals The Beano Annual The Beezer Book The Bimbo Book The Dandy Annual The Hotspur Book for Boys The Sparky Book The Topper Book The Victor Book for Boys Warlord Book for Boys Character annuals Bananaman Annual The Bash Street Kids Annual Beryl the Peril Annual Black Bob Book The Broons Annual Dennis the Menace Annual The Desperate Dan Book Oor Wullie Annual Notable artists Barrie Appleby Nigel Auchterlounie Leo Baxendale Gordon Bell Nick Brennan Paddy Brennan Sid Burgon Reg Carter Wilbur Dawbarn Karl Dixon The Etherington Brothers Hunt Emerson Andy Fanton John Geering Barry Glennard Charles Grigg Ken H. Harrison Laura Howell Diego Jourdan Malcolm Judge David Law Trevor Metcalfe Allan Morley David Mostyn Vic Neill Robert Nixon Gary Northfield Nigel Parkinson Tom Paterson Jim Petrie Ken Reid Bill Ritchie David Parkins Jon Rushby Jamie Smart Lew Stringer David Sutherland Kev F. Sutherland Dudley D. Watkins Stevie White Notable writers Mike Chinn Gilbert Lawford Dalton Alan Grant Ian Gray R. D. Low Grant Morrison John Radford Cavan Scott John Smith See also List of D. C. Thomson & Co. Ltd publications List of AP, Fleetway and IPC Comics publications List of Beano comic strips List of Dandy comic strips List of Topper comic strips List of Beezer comic strips List of Beezer and Topper comic strips Category v t e The Beano DC Thomson R. D. Low Stories 1938-1939 Big Eggo Hairy Dan Helpful Henry Lord Snooty Morgyn the Mighty Pansy Potter Ping the Elastic Man Tin-Can Tommy Wee Peem 1940s Biffo the Bear Jack Flash Jimmy and his Magic Patch Winnie the Witch 1950s The Bash Street Kids ( Pup Parade , Simply Smiffy , Singled Out , Winston ) Dennis the Menace ( Bea , Gnasher , Walter the Softy , Rasher ) General Jumbo Grandpa Jonah Little Plum Minnie the Minx ( Fatty Fudge ) Roger the Dodger The Three Bears 1960s Billy the Cat Billy Whizz Colonel Crackpot's Circus 1970s Baby Face Finlayson The Belles of St. Lemons Gnasher's Tale The McTickles The Nibblers Richard the Lion Tom, Dick and Sally 1980s Calamity James Danny's Nanny The Germs Gnasher and Gnipper Ivy the Terrible Number 13 Beano Street 1990s Beaginnings Betty and the Yeti Crazy for Daisy Gordon Bennett Joe King Les Pretend The Numskulls Tim Traveller Tricky Dicky 2000s Colin the Vet Derek the Sheep Freddie Fear Joe Jitsu Johnny Bean from Happy Bunny Green Lord Snooty the Third Olaff the Madlander Ratz Robbie Rebel Splodge Super School 2010s Bananaman Corporal Clott Meebo and Zuky Other media Spin-off media The Beano Annual List of Beano comic strips by annual Beano comic libraries/ Fun Size Comics EPIC Magazine The Beano Summer Special Dennis the Menace Annual The Magic Comic Plug Adaptations Bananaman (TV series) (BBC, 1983-1986) The Beano's Dennis the Menace and Gnasher Show (ITV/TCC, 1990–91) Beano Video (1993) The Beano VideoStars (1994) Dennis and Gnasher (BBC, 1996–98) Dennis and Gnasher (BBC, 2009–13) Dennis & Gnasher: Unleashed! (BBC, 2017-present) Banananman Musical (2017-2018) The Magnificent Misadventures of Minnie (upcoming in 2022) Creator staff D.C. Thomson artists Leo Baxendale Paddy Brennan Jim Petrie Ken Reid Dudley D. Watkins Freelance artists Barrie Appleby Nigel Auchterlounie Gordon Bell Basil Blackaller Nick Brennan Sid Burgon Reg Carter Wilbur Dawbarn Hunt Emerson Andy Fanton John Geering Barry Glennard Harry Hargreaves Ken H. Harrison Laura Howell Diego Jourdan Malcolm Judge David Law Trevor Metcalfe Allan Morley David Mostyn Vic Neill Robert Nixon Gary Northfield David Parkins Nigel Parkinson Tom Paterson Mike Pearse Dean Rankine Bill Ritchie Jon Rushby Cavan Scott Duncan Scott Jamie Smart Lew Stringer David Sutherland Kev F. Sutherland Stevie White History The Beano timeline Category This UK comics –related article is a stub . You can help Wikipedia by expanding it . v t e Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Colonel_Crackpot%27s_Circus&oldid=1137470526 " Categories : British comics stubs British comics 1960 comics debuts Comics characters introduced in 1960 1963 comics endings Humor comics Gag-a-day comics Fictional colonels Fictional circus performers Fictional English people British comics characters Male characters in comics Dandy strips Beano strips Hidden categories: All articles with dead external links Articles with dead external links from July 2020 Articles with permanently dead external links Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata EngvarB from September 2015 Use dmy dates from September 2015 All