 Indian-American video game developer Manveer Heir Heir in 2019 Nationality American Occupation Video game developer Years active 2005- Notable work Wolfenstein Mass Effect 3 Mass Effect: Andromeda Manveer Heir is an Punjabi-American video game developer . After working at Big Huge Games , Raven Software and BioWare , Heir co-founded his own studio, Brass Lion Entertainment, in 2017. Heir is known to be outspoken on issues related to diversity in video games . Career [ edit ] Heir grew up in Rockville, Maryland and attended college at Virginia Tech , graduating in 2004 with a degree in computer science and a minor in mathematics. [1] [2] He interned at Big Huge Games around 2005 [1] before moving to Raven Software , at the time a subsidiary of Activision . At Raven, he worked for about four and a half years on the 2009 Wolfenstein game, initially as a gameplay programmer before moving to be a game designer for the title. [2] He had been named as lead designer on another unannounced product, prior to a period of financial difficulty at Raven that resulted in Activision ordering multiple layoffs and cancellation of the unannounced project for the studio to focus on support for the Call of Duty series. [2] Heir, while still employed there, was disappointed in Activision's decision to take away any work on new intellectual property and offload it to Bungie , and decided to quit the company. [3] Heir subsequently moved to BioWare Montreal around 2010, where he worked as a gameplay designer on Mass Effect 3 (2012) and Mass Effect: Andromeda (2017). [4] Heir stated that, during development of Andromeda , he and other colleagues from the development team attempted, albeit unsuccessfully, to convince the project leads to remove a perceived colonialist slant to the player's forcible colonization of alien planets. [5] Heir became the subject of harassment by the Gamergate movement shortly before the release of Andromeda in 2017, after they claimed that parts of the game, such as the appearances of female characters, forced a "liberal agenda" on players. [6] An online petition was started to try to have Heir fired from BioWare, though BioWare backed Heir. [6] However, after the development was completed but before Andromeda shipped, Heir made the willing choice to leave BioWare, citing that he had become weary over the last twelve years and experiencing crunch time , and grown tired of being told to keep quiet over his concerns about games, as well as being put off by the attitudes from the Gamergate movement. [7] [5] Brass Lion Entertainment [ edit ] After leaving BioWare, Heir spent some months considering his career direction, including the possibility of leaving the video game area altogether. After reflection, he felt empowered to establish a new game development studio to focus on games relating to race and diversity based on his own experiences. He reached out to Bryna Dabby Smith, a former production crew member from Electronic Arts and Activision with work on games such as Sleeping Dogs , about assisting with the business side of this studio. Word that Heir was establishing a new studio reached Rashad Redic, a game world designer with Bethesda Game Studios with work in The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim and Fallout 4 , who expressed interest in supporting the two. [7] The three co-founded Brass Lion Entertainment in 2017 after establishing the vision of this studio over phone calls. [8] Heir had wanted to call the studio Big Mouth Games, reflecting his outspokenness, but found this conflicted with the program Big Mouth on Netflix . [4] Because of the studio vision on diversity, they wanted to be more inclusive in their hiring practices, bringing in minorities and others from underrepresented backgrounds. [7] The studio remained quiet over the first two years as they worked out their first title. Heir formally announced the studio in November 2019 along with their first game, Corner Wolves , an action role-playing game set in the 1990s in Harlem with the protagonist Jacinte as a young afro-latino that is caught in the midst of the drug war while she searches for her father's killer. [7] Race is planned to play a major role in the game, with different non-player characters reacting differently to Jacinte. The game is also envisioned to have short jobs like the Shenmue series though the types of jobs available will depend on player choice and their relationships with other characters. [4] The game's release will be preceded by a narrative podcast to establish Jacinte's story, being developed by Loud Speakers Network and Marginal Mediaworks. [9] Views on diversity in video games [ edit ] Heir has been outspoken on the need for video games to present better diversity of characters when it comes to race, gender, and other cultural alignments. Heir has said his views are not about achieving affirmative action within the video game industry, but believes better stories and gameplay can be had by considering underrepresented minorities as main characters, moving away from the typical "male power fantasy" that many video games present. [10] [11] One of his more recognized statements on diversity was given at the 2014 Game Developers Conference (GDC) in his talk "Misogyny, Racism and Homophobia: Where Do Video Games Stand?" where he challenged game developers to include more minority representation in video games, including women and LGBTQ people, despite the fears the industry has had to focus games on these types of characters. [12] He started the talk that showed the top 25 games of 2013 all had male, Caucasians as the protagonist, and identified games, such as Grand Theft Auto V where while there may be underrepresented minorities, they frequently were treated as objects of ridicule. Heir struck down past claims that games featuring underrepresented minorities sold fewer than those featuring male and Caucasian characters. He argued that failure to include such characters could perpetuate misogyny and racism to youth, and because video games are built on fantasy rather than realism, developers are free to further inclusion of underrepresented minorities without pressure. In his talk, Heir pointed to Assassin's Creed III: Liberation and Papers, Please as games that effectively dealt with race and culture. [13] [14] Heir's speech was well-received and considered one of the most important talks given at that year's GDC, [15] and Polygon named Heir one of the top 50 people in the video game industry in 2014 for his talk. [16] References [ edit ] ^ a b "Manveer Heir - Lead Designer - DICE Summit" . Academy of Interactive Arts & Sciences . Retrieved February 13, 2020 . ^ a b c Monokona (January 28, 2010). "Unseen Interview: Raven Software's Manveer Heir" . Unseen64 . Retrieved February 13, 2020 . ^ Heir, Manveer [@kingcurrythundr] (January 10, 2019). "I remember when I quit Raven Software..." (Tweet) . Retrieved February 13, 2020 – via Twitter . ^ a b c Ip, Chris (February 12, 2020). "The making of a diverse game studio" . Engadget . Retrieved February 12, 2020 . ^ a b Wawro, Alex (October 20, 2017). "Andromeda dev chalks up some of the game's problems to a lack of diversity" . Gamasutra . Retrieved February 12, 2020 . ^ a b Borkowski, Alex (May 17, 2017). " 'Mass Effect: Andromeda' conspiracy theories show Gamergate is as big of a problem as ever" . Mic . Retrieved February 12, 2020 . ^ a b c d Kato, Matthew (November 15, 2019). "Standing Up" . Game Informer . Retrieved February 12, 2020 . ^ Grubb, Jeff (November 5, 2019). "Brass Lion is a new diverse studio from Mass Effect 3 and Skyrim devs" . Venture Beat . Retrieved February 12, 2020 . ^ Kato, Matthew (January 7, 2020). "Corner Wolves Coming First As A Thriller Podcast" . Game Informer . Retrieved February 12, 2020 . ^ Sheffield, Branden (August 5, 2011). "Moving Forward On Race In Games: Manveer Heir Speaks" . Gamasutra . Retrieved February 12, 2020 . ^ Alexander, Leigh (August 4, 2010). "In-Depth: No Female Heroes At Activision?" . Gamasutra . Retrieved February 12, 2020 . ^ Heir, Manveer (March 19, 2014). "Misogyny, Racism and Homophobia: Where Do Video Games Stand?" . Game Developers Conference . Retrieved February 12, 2020 . ^ Hall, Charlie (March 19, 2014). "Mass Effect developer makes emotional plea to eliminate social injustice in games" . Polygon . Retrieved February 12, 2020 . ^ Parkin, Simon (March 24, 2014). "Four things we learned at GDC 2014" . The Guardian . Retrieved February 12, 2020 . ^ Senior, Tom (March 24, 2014). "Why Manveer Heir's attack on stereotypes in games was the most important moment of GDC 2014" . PC Gamer . Retrieved February 12, 2020 . ^ Campbell, Colin (December 30, 2014). "Polygon's 50 admirable gaming people of 2014" . Polygon . Retrieved February 12, 2020 . v t e BioWare A subsidiary of Electronic Arts Baldur's Gate Baldur's Gate Tales of the Sword Coast II: Shadows of Amn Throne of Bhaal Neverwinter Nights Neverwinter Nights Shadows of Undrentide Hordes of the Underdark Star Wars Knights of the Old Republic The Old Republic Rise of the Hutt Cartel Mass Effect Mass Effect Galaxy Mass Effect 2 Mass Effect 3 Andromeda Legendary Edition Dragon Age Origins Awakening Dragon Age II Legends Inquisition Dreadwolf Other games Shattered Steel MDK2 Jade Empire Sonic Chronicles: The Dark Brotherhood Anthem Cancelled games Command & Conquer Shadow Realms People David Gaider Manveer Heir Jennifer Hepler Jeff Hickman Casey Hudson Drew Karpyshyn Mike Laidlaw Kevin Martens Ray Muzyka James Ohlen Mac Walters Patrick Weekes Greg Zeschuk Related Beamdog Mythic Entertainment NWScript Black Isle Studios Obsidian Entertainment inXile Entertainment Troika Games Motive Studios Archetype Entertainment List Category v t e Mass Effect Electronic Arts BioWare Media Video games Mass Effect Pinnacle Station Mass Effect 2 Downloadable content Kasumi – Stolen Memory Overlord Lair of the Shadow Broker Arrival Mass Effect 3 Controversies Downloadable content From Ashes Leviathan Omega Citadel Andromeda Other Mass Effect Galaxy Mass Effect Infiltrator Mass Effect Legendary Edition Print Revelation Ascension Redemption Retribution Deception Foundation Andromeda (book series) Other media Paragon Lost New Earth Universe Characters Commander Shepard Joker Kaidan Alenko Ashley Williams Garrus Vakarian Urdnot Wrex Tali'Zorah Liara T'Soni The Illusive Man Miranda Lawson Mordin Solus Jack Samara Thane Krios Legion James Vega Steve Cortez Races Asari Krogan Quarian Reapers Turian Technology The Citadel M35 Mako The Normandy Related Manveer Heir Casey Hudson Drew Karpyshyn Mac Walters Patrick Weekes Category Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Manveer_Heir&oldid=1124172799 " Categories : American people of Indian descent American businesspeople Video game developers Living people Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Articles with hCards Year of birth missing (