 Alexander Mach - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Languages Language links are at the top of the page across from the title. Search Create account Log in Personal tools Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Early years 2 Slovak Republic 3 Later life 4 References 5 External links Toggle the table of contents Toggle the table of contents Alexander Mach 16 languages Беларуская Беларуская (тарашкевіца) Čeština Deutsch Español فارسی Italiano Magyar مصرى Norsk bokmål Polski Русский Slovenčina Suomi Svenska Türkçe Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Slovak politician Alexander Mach Born Alexander Mach ( 1902-10-11 ) October 11, 1902 Slovenský Meder , Nyitra County , Kingdom of Hungary Died October 15, 1980 (1980-10-15) (aged 78) Bratislava , Czechoslovak Socialist Republic Nationality Czechoslovakian Known for Politician Title Head of the Hlinka Guard Term 1939–1945 Predecessor Karol Sidor Successor Post abolished Political party Slovak People's Party Criminal status Deceased Conviction(s) Treason Criminal penalty 30 years imprisonment Alexander Mach (11 October 1902 – 15 October 1980) was a Slovak nationalist politician. Mach was associated with the far right wing of Slovak nationalism and became noted for his strong support of Nazism and Germany . Early years [ edit ] Mach joined the Slovak People's Party at an early age and came to prominence within that movement as an aide to Vojtech Tuka . Under Tuka's tutelage Mach served as editor of the party organs Slovák and Slovenská Pravda and was appointed to the party's political committee in 1924. [1] He belonged to the non-clerical wing of the Slovak People's Party, which has been portrayed as the more pro- Nazi of the party's two factions. [2] He also served as chief executive of the Rodobrana during that group's mid-1920s heyday. [1] An influential figure on party policy, an editorial he wrote in 1938 calling for the establishment of a paramilitary arm to the party led directly to the formation of the Hlinka Guard . [1] Mach would succeed Karol Sidor as commander of this group in March 1939 with Karol Murgaš serving as his chief of staff. [3] Slovak Republic [ edit ] Mach came to the fore in 1938 after the Munich Agreement and subsequent upsurge in Slovak nationalism as a close associate of Vojtech Tuka and Ferdinand Ďurčanský . [4] Known for his rabble-rousing, Mach played a leading role in orchestrating the violence that followed the collapse of Czechoslovakia in March 1939 in his role as head of the Slovak Office of Propaganda. [1] He served initially as Propaganda Minister in the first Slovak Republic before holding the position of Interior Minister in the government of Tuka from 29 July 1940 until the state's collapse in 1944. [1] Like Tuka, whom Mach often deputised for during the Prime Minister's regular spells of illness, he supported a pro-Nazi policy and the speedy establishment of a fascist state, something which led to frequent clashes with the less ideologically minded President Jozef Tiso . [1] Tiso managed to briefly deprive Mach of his position in the Hlinka Guard in May 1940 although Mach's pro-German stance meant the Nazis backed him for high office consistently. In 1941 Mach even drew up plans to establish concentration camps in Slovakia for the Germans although the plan was abandoned when they decided to concentrate on Poland and the east as the location for such initiative. [1] Later life [ edit ] A staunch supporter of Nazi Germany , Mach fled Slovakia after the collapse of its puppet government in 1944 and relocated to Vienna , where he was declared Minister of Home Affairs in a pro-Nazi government-in-exile. [1] Arrested by the Czechoslovak authorities after the end of the Second World War he was tried before a People's Court and sentenced to thirty years imprisonment for his role in collaboration. [1] He was released from prison in 1968 and settled in Bratislava, living on a state pension until his death in 1980. [1] References [ edit ] ^ a b c d e f g h i j Philip Rees , Biographical Dictionary of the Extreme Right Since 1890 , Simon & Schuster, 1990, p. 245 ^ Shari J. Cohen, Politics without a past , 1999, p. 68 ^ Richard S. Levy, Antisemitism , 2005, p. 310 ^ Stanislav J. Kirschbaum, A history of Slovakia , 1996, p. 182 External links [ edit ] Newspaper clippings about Alexander Mach in the 20th Century Press Archives of the ZBW Authority control International FAST ISNI VIAF WorldCat National France BnF data Germany United States Czech Republic 2 Poland People Deutsche Biographie Other IdRef Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Alexander_Mach&oldid=1134063125 " Categories : 1902 births 1980 deaths People from Nové Zámky District People from the Kingdom of Hungary Slovak People's Party politicians Slovak fascists Slovak collaborators with Nazi Germany Holocaust perpetrators in Slovakia People convicted of treason against Czechoslovakia Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Articles with hCards Pages using infobox criminal with known for parameter Articles with FAST identifiers Articles with ISNI identifiers Articles with VIAF identifiers Articles with WorldCat identifiers Articles with BNF identifiers Articles with BNFdata identifiers Articles with GND identifiers Articles with LCCN identifiers Articles with NKC identifiers Articles with PLWABN identifiers Articles with DTBIO identifiers Articles with SUDOC identifiers This page was last edited on 16 January 2023, at 21:05 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0 ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement 