 Matewan Historic District - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Languages Language links are at the top of the page across from the title. Search Create account Log in Personal tools Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Description 2 History 3 Gallery 4 See also 5 References 6 External links Toggle the table of contents Toggle the table of contents Matewan Historic District Add languages Add links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Historic district in West Virginia, United States United States historic place Matewan Historic District U.S. National Register of Historic Places U.S. National Historic Landmark District Matewan Historic District, June 2008 Show map of West Virginia Show map of the United States Location Roughly bounded by McCoy Alley, Railroad Alley, Mate St. underpass and Warm Hollow to the head of the hollow, Matewan, West Virginia Coordinates 37°37′21″N 82°9′55″W ﻿ / ﻿ 37.62250°N 82.16528°W ﻿ / 37.62250; -82.16528 Coordinates : 37°37′21″N 82°9′55″W ﻿ / ﻿ 37.62250°N 82.16528°W ﻿ / 37.62250; -82.16528 Area 10 acres (4.0 ha) Built 1893 Architect Levi J. Dean Architectural style Early Commercial, Classical Revival, Bungalow/craftsman NRHP reference No. 93000303 Significant dates Added to NRHP April 27, 1993 [1] Designated NHLD February 18, 1997 [2] The Matewan Historic District encompasses the town center of the rural coal mining community of Matewan, West Virginia . Matewan was the scene of the Battle of Matewan on May 19, 1920, during a coal miners' strike, an event which led to the Battle of Blair Mountain , the largest insurrection ever associated with the labor movement in the United States, and was depicted in the film Matewan . It was designated a National Historic Landmark in 1997. [2] [3] Description [ edit ] Matewan is located on the banks of the Tug Fork , a tributary of the Big Sandy River in mountainous western West Virginia. The hills rise steeply above the river, and the town center is located in a segment of flood plain on the north bank. It is bounded on the west by a 20th-century concrete bridge, and on the east by Mate Creek. There are two main roads, Mate Street ( West Virginia Highway 49 ) and Main Street, with McCoy Alley paralleling Main Street between it and the river. Main Street and Mate Street are separated by a row of commercial buildings and by the right-of-way of the Norfolk Southern Railway . This basic layout is unchanged since the historic events of the 1920s, although the bridge is a replacement and the railroad bed has been raised. The row of commercial buildings are mainly vernacular early 20th-century buildings, most of which were standing at the time. A few historically significant buildings have been lost, including that housing the Urias Hotel, headquarters of the Baldwin–Felts Detective Agency operatives. [3] History [ edit ] Main articles: Coal Wars and Battle of Matewan In the early 20th century, Matewan was essentially a company town , in which the owners of the coal mines controlled many aspects of the lives of the miners they employed. In a response to efforts by the United Mine Workers of America to unionize the miners in the region, the owners hired detectives of the Baldwin-Felts Agency to evict the families of striking workers from their company-owned housing. In Matewan, this effort was resisted by the chief of police, Sid Hatfield , who objected to the presence of armed detectives in the town. In a standoff on May 19, 1920, shots were fired, and the ensuing shootout resulted in the deaths of 10 men: seven detectives, two miners, and Matewan's mayor. The event served to greatly heighten tensions, and prompted many miners to join the union. The miners' actions culminated in the September 1921 Battle of Blair Mountain , which was ended by the intervention of federal troops. It was the most violent act of labor violence in United States history. [3] Gallery [ edit ] Panorama of Matewan West Virginia Historic District See also [ edit ] List of National Historic Landmarks in West Virginia National Register of Historic Places listings in Mingo County, West Virginia References [ edit ] ^ "National Register Information System" . National Register of Historic Places . National Park Service . January 23, 2007. ^ a b "Matewan Historic District" . National Historic Landmark summary listing . National Park Service. Archived from the original on 2009-10-28 . Retrieved 2007-10-14 . ^ a b c John W. Bond (February 26, 1996). "National Historic Landmark Nomination: Matewan Historic District" (pdf) . National Park Service. {{ cite journal }} : Cite journal requires |journal= ( help ) and Accompanying 17 photos, undated (which appears to report several non-contributing buildings' years of construction later than 1920). (4.50 MB) External links [ edit ] Official Matewan, WV Website at Matewan.com Official Matewan, WV Tourism Website at VisitMatewan.com West Virginia Mine Wars Museum independent history museum covering the Mine Wars Era in Matewan, WV. v t e U.S. National Register of Historic Places in West Virginia Topics Contributing property Keeper of the Register Historic district History of the National Register of Historic Places National Park Service Property types Lists by county Barbour Berkeley Boone Braxton Brooke Cabell Calhoun Clay Doddridge Fayette Gilmer Grant Greenbrier Hampshire Hancock Hardy Harrison Jackson Jefferson Kanawha Lewis Lincoln Logan Marion Marshall Mason McDowell Mercer Mineral Mingo Monongalia Monroe Morgan Nicholas Ohio Pendleton Pleasants Pocahontas Preston Putnam Raleigh Randolph Ritchie Roane Summers Taylor Tucker Tyler Upshur Wayne Webster Wetzel Wirt Wood Wyoming Other lists Bridges National Historic Landmarks Category:National Register of Historic Places in West Virginia Portal:National Register of Historic Places Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Matewan_Historic_District&oldid=1092874708 " Categories : National Register of Historic Places in Mingo County, West Virginia National Historic Landmarks in West Virginia Historic districts in Mingo County, West Virginia Neoclassical architecture in West Virginia American Craftsman architecture in West Virginia Bungalow architecture in West Virginia Buildings designated early commercial in the National Register of Historic Places in West Virginia Conflict sites on the National Register of Historic Places in West Virginia Historic districts on the National Register of Historic Places in West Virginia Hidden categories: Articles using NRISref without a reference number CS1 errors: missing periodical Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Short description is different from Wikidata Coordinates on Wikidata NRHP infobox with nocat This page was last edited on 13 June 2022, at 04:35 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0 ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement 