 Exessive case - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Languages Language links are at the top of the page across from the title. Search Create account Log in Personal tools Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Estonian 2 Finnish 3 Publications 4 See also 5 References 6 Further reading 7 External links Toggle the table of contents Toggle the table of contents Exessive case 9 languages Brezhoneg Català Čeština Lietuvių Nederlands Norsk bokmål Suomi Svenska 中文 Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Grammatical case The exessive case ( abbreviated EXESS ) is a grammatical case that denotes a transition away from a state. It is a rare case found in certain dialects of Baltic-Finnic languages . It completes the series of "to/in/from a state" series consisting of the translative case , the essive case and the exessive case. The exessive case has been described in Estonian , South Estonian , Livonian , Votic , Ingrian , Ludic , Karelian , and Finnish . [1] [2] Estonian [ edit ] In the general pattern of the loss of a final vowel when compared to Finnish , the Estonian exessive ending is -nt . Exessive case is unproductive in contemporary Estonian . It appears in words such as kodunt 'away from home' and tagant 'from behind', or South Estonian mant 'away from the vicinity of something'. The exessive is more common in the language of Estonian folk songs. [3] Finnish [ edit ] The exessive is found only in Savo and southeastern dialects. Its ending is -nta/ntä . [4] For example, tärähtäneentä terveeksi = "from loony to healthy", or a state change from mental illness to mental health. There are some word forms in Finnish dialects in which the exessive appears in a locative sense. These are somewhat common, though nonstandard, for example takaanta / takanta (from behind, standard Finnish takaa ), siintä (from that/it or thence, standard Finnish siitä ). [5] Publications [ edit ] Ariste, Paul . 1960. "Ekstsessiivist läänemere keeltes." In Emakeele Seltsi Aastaraamat , VI, pp. 145-161. Särkkä, Tauno (1969). Itämerensuomalaisten kielten eksessiivi [ The exessive case of the Baltic-Finnic languages ] (in Finnish). Helsinki: Suomalaisen Kirjallisuuden Seura. See also [ edit ] Votian Exessive References [ edit ] ^ Ariste, Paul . 1960. "Ekstsessiivist läänemere keeltes." In Emakeele Seltsi Aastaraamat , VI, 145-161. ^ Särkkä, Tauno. 1969. Itämerensuomalaisten kielten eksessiivi . (Suomalaisen Kirjallisuuden Seuran toimituksia 291.) Helsinki: Suomalaisen Kirjallisuuden Seura. ^ Prillop, Külli et al. 2020. Eesti keele ajalugu . Tartu Ülikooli Kirjastus. p. 201. ^ Korpela, Jukka K. "93. Constructs sometimes regarded as cases" . Handbook of Finnish . Turku: Suomen E-painos Oy. p. 332. ISBN 978-9-5266-1334-5 . Retrieved April 15, 2019 . Sometimes a case, exessive , with an ending ntA (combined from the ending nA of essive and tA of partitive) is suggested, meaning "from the role of", thus making the system of locational cases more orthogonal. It is used in a few dialects, though often in a few words only, e.g. using luonta instead of ... ^ Anhava, Jaakko (2010). " Criteria for case forms in Finnish and Hungarian grammars " (PDF) . journal.fi . Studia Orientalia. pp. 241–242 . Retrieved April 15, 2019 . A rare case form attested in some dialects of Finnish is the exessive , -nta/-ntä ; it has developed on the basis of the historical separative case -ta/-tä (which is also the origin of the contemporary Finnish partitive case, which has changed from its historical local meaning into a grammatical case) and has been used in roughly the same meaning: luonta "from the vicinity of", takanta "from behind". The form is relatively young, which can be seen from the fact that it does not take part in Finnish consonantal gradation of stops ( takanta , never *taanta – although taakse "(to) behind" where the gradation does take place). In contrast to the Estonian terminative, neither the exessive nor the above-mentioned prolative have become productive case endings in any Finnic language. Further reading [ edit ] Anhava, Jaakko (2015). "Criteria For Case Forms in Finnish and Hungarian Grammars" . journal.fi . Helsinki: Finnish Scholarly Journals Online. External links [ edit ] A Finnish text on the dialectal exessive v t e Grammatical cases List of cases Declension Morphosyntactic alignment Cases Morphosyntactic alignment Absolutive Accusative Direct Ergative Intransitive Nominative Oblique Partitive Pegative Location, time, direction Ablative Adessive Allative Antessive Apudessive Approximative Delative Distantitive Distributive -temporal Egressive Elative Illative Inelative Inessive Intrative Lative Limitative Locative -qualitative Medial Perlative Pertingent Postdirective Postelative Postessive Prolative Proximative Subdirective Subelative Subessive Sublative Superdirective Superelative Superessive Superlative Temporal Terminative Possession, companion, instrument Abessive Caritive Comitative Dative Genitive Instrumental -comitative Ornative Possessed Possessive Privative Sociative State, manner Adverbial Comparative Equative Essive -formal -modal Exessive Formal Instructive Modal Multiplicative Orientative Revertive Semblative Translative Cause, purpose Aversive Benefactive Causal -final Final Other Postpositional/Prepositional Vocative Declensions Classical Arabic Czech Archaic Dutch English Middle English Old English Finnish Georgian German Old High German Gothic Hindi Hungarian Irish Latin Latvian Lithuanian Russian Serbo-Croatian Slovak Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Exessive_case&oldid=1142614016 " Category : Grammatical cases Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata CS1 Finnish-language sources (fi) This page was last edited on 3 March 2023, at 11:57 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0 ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement 