 Japanese studies - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Languages Language links are at the top of the page across from the title. Search Create account Log in Personal tools Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Japanese studies organizations and publications 2 Notable Japanologists 3 Scholarly journals 4 See also 5 References 6 External links Toggle External links subsection 6.1 Library guides Toggle the table of contents Toggle the table of contents Japanese studies 29 languages العربية Български Català Čeština Deutsch Español Esperanto Français 한국어 Հայերեն Hrvatski Italiano ქართული Қазақша Kurdî Lietuvių Magyar 日本語 Norsk bokmål Polski Русский Shqip Simple English Svenska Türkçe Українська Tiếng Việt Winaray 中文 Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Area studies focused on Japan Japanese studies or Japan studies ( Japanese : 日本学 , Hepburn : Nihongaku ) , sometimes known as Japanology in Europe , is a sub-field of area studies or East Asian studies involved in social sciences and humanities research on Japan . It incorporates fields such as the study of Japanese language , culture , history , literature , art , music and science . Its roots may be traced back to the Dutch at Dejima , Nagasaki in the Edo period . The foundation of the Asiatic Society of Japan at Yokohama in 1872 by men such as Ernest Satow and Frederick Victor Dickins was an important event in the development of Japanese studies as an academic discipline. Japanese studies organizations and publications [ edit ] In the United States, the Society for Japanese Studies has published the Journal of Japanese Studies (JJS) since 1974. This is a biannual academic journal dealing with research on Japan in the United States. JJS is supported by grants from the Japan Foundation , Georgetown University , and the University of Washington in addition to endowments from the Kyocera Corporation and the National Endowment for the Humanities . The British Association for Japanese Studies (BAJS), founded in 1974, is an association primarily sponsored by Toshiba [1] and the Japan Foundation . [2] The BAJS publishes an academic journal called Japan Forum . [3] In Europe, the European Association for Japanese Studies (EAJS) is also funded by Toshiba and the Japan Foundation. It has held triennial conferences around Europe since 1973. Other academic journals dealing with Japanese studies include Monumenta Nipponica , a biannual English-language journal affiliated with Sophia University in Tokyo, and Social Science Japan Journal , published by Oxford University Press . Scholarship on Japan is also within the purview of many organizations and publications dealing with the more general field of East Asian studies , such as the Association for Asian Studies or the Duke University publication Positions: Asia Critique . The International Research Center for Japanese Studies (Nichibunken), maintains an online database of institutions involved in Japanese studies research worldwide, including information on 1,640 institutions of Japanese studies. The database indicates that the country with the most institutions of Japanese studies outside the United States and Japan is China (121), while other countries containing a significant number of institutions include South Korea (85), England (69), Germany (64), Canada (61), Australia (54), and France (54). Notable Japanologists [ edit ] Boris Akunin Ruth Benedict Basil Hall Chamberlain Serge Elisséeff Carol Gluck William Elliot Griffis Conrad Totman Lafcadio Hearn Algernon Freeman-Mitford, 1st Baron Redesdale also known as A. B. Mitford and Lord Redesdale. Donald Keene Fosco Maraini Edwin O. Reischauer Donald Richie Ernest Mason Satow Edward Seidensticker Francis Xavier Judit Hidasi Steponas Kairys Scholarly journals [ edit ] Bulletin of the National Museum of Japanese History , In Japanese East Asian History [4] Japan Forum [5] Japanese Studies [6] Japanese Journal of Religious Studies Journal of Japanese Studies Monumenta Nipponica , Japanese studies, in English Sino-Japanese Studies [7] Social Science Japan Journal See also [ edit ] East Asian studies International Research Center for Japanese Studies Japan Academy Japanophilia List of Japanologists Oriental studies Otaku Weeaboo References [ edit ] ^ "International Foundation - Corporate Citizenship" . Toshiba. Archived from the original on 2013-10-31 . Retrieved 2013-06-18 . ^ "The Japan Foundation > Main Activities > Japanese Studies and Intellectual Exchange > Topics > Associations & Institutions" . Jpf.go.jp. Archived from the original on 2012-03-20 . Retrieved 2013-06-18 . ^ "Publications" . Bajs.org.uk. ^ see online ^ See online ^ see online ^ See online External links [ edit ] Media related to Japanology at Wikimedia Commons Electronic journal of contemporary Japanese studies European Association for Japanese Studies Images of Japan in Non-Japanese Sources Library guides [ edit ] "Japan Studies" . Research & Subject Guides . Washington DC: Georgetown University Library. Harvard Library. "Japanese Studies" . Research Guides . Cambridge, Massachusetts: Harvard University. "Japanese Studies Research Guide" . LibGuides . Evanston, Illinois, USA: Northwestern University Library. Authority control : National Germany Japan Czech Republic Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Japanese_studies&oldid=1147288313 " Category : Japanese studies Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Articles containing Japanese-language text Commons category link is on Wikidata Articles with GND identifiers Articles with NDL identifiers Articles with NKC identifiers This page was last edited on 29 March 2023, at 23:52 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0 ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement 