 Confederate Soldier Memorial (Huntsville, Alabama) - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Languages Language links are at the top of the page across from the title. Search Create account Log in Personal tools Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Description 2 History 3 See also 4 References Toggle the table of contents Toggle the table of contents Confederate Soldier Memorial (Huntsville, Alabama) Add languages Add links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Monument to the Confederate Army in Huntsville, Alabama Confederate Soldier Memorial Confederate Monument The memorial in 2010 Year 1905 ( 1905 ) Location Huntsville, Alabama , U.S. Coordinates 34°43′52″N 86°34′17″W ﻿ / ﻿ 34.73102°N 86.57129°W ﻿ / 34.73102; -86.57129 Coordinates : 34°43′52″N 86°34′17″W ﻿ / ﻿ 34.73102°N 86.57129°W ﻿ / 34.73102; -86.57129 The Confederate Soldier Memorial , or Confederate Monument , [1] is located in the Maple Hill Cemetery in Huntsville, Alabama . Description [ edit ] The monument consists of a life-sized granite statue of a Confederate soldier holding a rifle. [1] The base underneath the statue is engraved with text praising what it describes as the "noble cause" of the Confederacy and commemorating those who lost their lives fighting for it, including Huntsville local General John Hunt Morgan . [1] History [ edit ] The memorial was erected in 1905 by the Daughters of the Confederacy near the Madison County Courthouse. [2] [3] In 1966, the courthouse next the Confederate Soldier Memorial was demolished to make room for a new courthouse. [3] The memorial was moved across the street and laid on its side near a row of pre-Civil War structures that were also being demolished. [3] The Confederate soldier statue was accidentally crushed by a falling wall; the base was unharmed. [3] The Daughters of the Confederacy successfully sued the demolition company and used their winning to construct a new statue on the surviving base. [3] In 1968, the partially reconstructed statue was re-dedicated back in its original position. [3] In early June 2020, the monument was protested against in the aftermath of the May 2020 murder of George Floyd . [2] On June 10, 2020, the seven person Madison County Commission voted unanimously to seek approval from a state committee to move the monument to the Maple Hill Cemetery, but the Alabama Monument Preservation Committee responded that approving such a move would be outside of their authority. [4] Under the 2017 Alabama Memorial Preservation Act , the county must seek permission to remove historical markers that have been in place for twenty to forty years; it contains no process for the removal of markers that have been in place for over forty years such as the Confederate Soldier Memorial. [2] If the memorial is removed without state permission, the county would be fined $25,000. [2] On the night of October 22, 2020 or the early morning of October 23, 2020, the city removed the monument from the Courthouse Square. It was relocated to nearby Maple Hill Cemetery in a section containing graves of Confederate soldiers. [5] [6] See also [ edit ] Visual arts portal List of Confederate monuments and memorials in Alabama List of monuments and memorials removed during the George Floyd protests References [ edit ] ^ a b c "Confederate Soldier Memorial, (sculpture)" . Smithsonian Institution . Archived from the original on 2020-06-11 . Retrieved 2020-06-12 . ^ a b c d Gattis, Paul; Roop, Lee; Remkus, Ashley (2020-06-10). "Madison County Commission votes to remove statue" . al . Archived from the original on 2020-06-16 . Retrieved 2020-06-12 . ^ a b c d e f Roop, Lee (2020-06-12). "Huntsville's Controversial Confederate Statue is a 1960′s Replica" . AL.com. Archived from the original on 2020-06-16 . Retrieved 2020-06-16 . ^ Gattis, Paul (2020-07-10). "Madison County request to move Confederate statue rejected" . AL.com . Archived from the original on 2020-07-14 . Retrieved 2020-07-14 . ^ Gattis, Paul (2020-10-23). "Confederate monument in Huntsville removed overnight" . AL.com . Archived from the original on 2020-10-24 . Retrieved 2020-10-23 . ^ Robinson-Smith, Will (2020-10-25). "Moving a monument: how the Confederate monument eventually moved to Maple Hill Cemetery" . WAAY . Archived from the original on 2021-03-05 . Retrieved 2021-02-28 . v t e Monuments and memorials removed during the George Floyd protests United States Alabama Birmingham – Confederate Soldiers and Sailors Monument ; Charles Linn Huntsville – Confederate Soldier Memorial ✻ Mobile – Raphael Semmes Arkansas Bentonville – Confederate Monument ✻ Little Rock – Company A, Capitol Guards Pine Bluff – Confederate Monument California Carmel-by-the-Sea – Junípero Serra Chula Vista – Christopher Columbus Los Angeles – Junípero Serra Sacramento – Columbus' Last Appeal to Queen Isabella ✻; Junípero Serra ; John Sutter San Francisco – Christopher Columbus ; Ulysses S. Grant ; Francis Scott Key ; Junípero Serra Ventura – Junípero Serra ✻ Connecticut Bridgeport – Christopher Columbus Hartford – Christopher Columbus ✻ Middletown – Christopher Columbus New Haven – Christopher Columbus ✻ New London – Christopher Columbus ✻ Norwalk – Christopher Columbus Delaware Dover – Delaware Law Enforcement Memorial Wilmington – Christopher Columbus ; Caesar Rodney District of Columbia Washington – Albert Pike Florida Jacksonville – Confederate Memorial ; Florida's Tribute to the Women of the Confederacy ✻ Palatka – Putnam County Confederate Memorial ✻ Quincy – Gadsden Confederate Memorial Georgia Athens – Confederate Monument Decatur – DeKalb County Confederate Monument Indiana Indianapolis – Confederate Soldiers and Sailors Monument Kentucky Frankfort – Jefferson Davis Louisville – John B. Castleman ; Louis XVI Louisiana New Orleans – John McDonogh Massachusetts Boston – Christopher Columbus ; Emancipation Memorial Michigan Dearborn – Orville L. Hubbard Detroit – Christopher Columbus Minnesota Minneapolis – Calvin Griffith Saint Paul – Christopher Columbus Missouri St. Louis – Christopher Columbus Nevada Las Vegas – Hey Reb! New Jersey Camden – Christopher Columbus Newark – Christopher Columbus West Orange – Christopher Columbus ✻ New Mexico Albuquerque – Juan de Oñate Alcalde – Juan de Oñate Santa Fe – Diego de Vargas New York Albany – Philip Schuyler ✻ Buffalo – Christopher Columbus Hempstead – Thomas Jefferson New York City – Theodore Roosevelt Rochester – Frederick Douglass North Carolina Asheville – Vance Monument ✻ Charlotte – Jerry Richardson Raleigh – North Carolina Women of the Confederacy ; Josephus Daniels ; Henry Lawson Wyatt Rocky Mount – Nash County Confederate Monument ✻ Salisbury – Gloria Victis ✻ Wilmington – Confederate Memorial ; George Davis Ohio Columbus – Christopher Columbus (City Hall) ; Christopher Columbus (Columbus State Community College) Oregon Eugene – The Pioneer ; The Pioneer Mother Portland – Captain William Clark Monument ; Thompson Elk Fountain ; Thomas Jefferson ; Abraham Lincoln ; Theodore Roosevelt ; Harvey W. Scott ; George Washington Pennsylvania Philadelphia – Christopher Columbus ✻; Frank Rizzo ; George Whitefield Rhode Island Providence – Christopher Columbus ✻ South Carolina Columbia – Christopher Columbus Charleston – John C. Calhoun Tennessee Nashville – Edward W. Carmack ; Sam Davis ✻ Texas Beaumont – Our Confederate Soldiers Dallas – Confederate War Memorial ; One Riot, One Ranger Denton – Confederate Soldier Monument ✻ Fort Worth – Confederate Monument Houston – Christopher Columbus ; Richard W. Dowling ✻; Spirit of the Confederacy Virginia Alexandria – Appomattox Fredericksburg – Slave Auction Block Norfolk – Confederate Monument Portsmouth – Confederate Monument Roanoke – Robert E. Lee Richmond – Christopher Columbus ; Jefferson Davis ; Howitzer Monument ✻; Stonewall Jackson ; Robert E. Lee ; Matthew Fontaine Maury ; Richmond Police Memorial ; J. E. B. Stuart ; Williams Carter Wickham Wisconsin Madison – Forward ; Hans Christian Heg Other countries Belgium Antwerp – Leopold II Ghent – Leopold II New Zealand Hamilton – John Fane Charles Hamilton United Kingdom Bristol – Edward Colston Cambridge – Sir Ronald Fisher window Greater Manchester – Dunham Massey Hall sundial London – John Cass ; Robert Clayton ✻; Thomas Guy ✻; Robert Milligan Key : ✻ Pending removal Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Confederate_Soldier_Memorial_(Huntsville,_Alabama)&oldid=1109821887 " Categories : 1905 establishments in Alabama 1905 sculptures Monuments and memorials in the United States removed during the George Floyd protests Buildings and structures in Huntsville, Alabama Granite sculptures in the United States Monuments and memorials in Alabama Outdoor sculptures in Alabama Sculptures of men in Alabama Statues in Alabama Relocated buildings and structures in Alabama Removed Confederate States of America monuments and memorials Statues removed in 2020 Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Infobox mapframe without OSM relation ID on Wikidata Coordinates on Wikidata Pages using the Kartographer extension This page was last edited on 12 September 2022, at 01:35 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0 ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement 