 Alex Manoogian - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Languages Language links are at the top of the page across from the title. Search Create account Log in Personal tools Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Career 2 Marriage and family 3 Philanthropy and civic organizations 4 Legacy and honors 5 References 6 External links Toggle the table of contents Toggle the table of contents Alex Manoogian 10 languages Արեւմտահայերէն Azərbaycanca Беларуская Esperanto فارسی Հայերեն مصرى Русский Svenska Українська Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia American businessman Alex Manoogian Born Alexander Manoogian ( 1901-06-28 ) June 28, 1901 Smyrna , Ottoman Empire Died July 10, 1996 (1996-07-10) (aged 95) Detroit , Michigan , United States Occupation(s) Businessman, entrepreneur, industrial engineer Spouse Marie Tatian Children Louise Manoogian Simone Richard Manoogian The Manoogian Mansion , Detroit, Michigan. Alexander Manoogian ( Armenian : Ալեք Մանուկեան ; June 28, 1901 – July 10, 1996) was an Armenian-American industrial engineer, businessman, entrepreneur and philanthropist who spent most of his career in Detroit , Michigan . He was the founder of the Masco Corporation , [1] which in 1969 [2] was listed on the NYSE (XNYS:MAS). [3] In 1954, he patented and brought to market the first successful washerless ball valve faucet, the Delta faucet , named for the faucet cam shaped like the fourth letter of the Greek alphabet . [4] He and his wife Marie donated the Manoogian Mansion to the city of Detroit, which uses it as the official residence of the Mayor of Detroit . In addition to donations to local universities, the Manoogians donated substantial amounts of money to churches, educational institutions and charities of the Armenian Diaspora to preserve and continue their culture. Career [ edit ] Arriving in Bridgeport, Connecticut , in 1920, Manoogian began working as a machinist . He also worked for short periods in Rhode Island and in Massachusetts . In time, he was joined by his parents, two brothers and two sisters. Manoogian and his family moved to Detroit , Michigan , in 1924, attracted to opportunities in the booming auto industry. After gaining more experience, in 1929 he founded the Masco Screw Company, later known as Masco Corporation . By 1936, in the midst of the Great Depression , Manoogian had expanded Masco to the point that it was listed on the New York Stock Exchange ( NYSE ). Manoogian's redesign and production of the Delta faucet , which allowed one-handed use, resulted in best-selling status for the plumbing fixture and generated substantial profits for his business. In 1995, his company had $3 billion in sales and had 38 percent of the domestic market for faucets. [5] Marriage and family [ edit ] Manoogian married Marie Tatian (1902–1993), also an Armenian immigrant. Their daughter Louise Manoogian Simone (1933-2019) succeeded him as President of AGBU (see below). Their son Richard A. Manoogian (b. 1936) was CEO of the family business Masco and is a major collector of American art. Philanthropy and civic organizations [ edit ] St. John Armenian Church in the Metro Detroit suburb of Southfield, Michigan , was substantially funded by Alex Manoogian in the 1960s, and is noted for its stained glass. [6] Interior view of Alex and Marie Manoogian Treasury Museum Manoogian contributed generously to charitable organizations and educational institutions, especially to the Armenian General Benevolent Union (AGBU). In recognition, he was voted Life President in 1970 and Honorary Life President in 1989. [5] Manoogian was also active in the Knights of Vartan ; in 1940 he was elected its Avak Sparapet (National Commander). In 1968 he established the AGBU Alex and Marie Manoogian Cultural Fund. The fund, seeded with a $1 million endowment, is devoted to the publication and translation of Armenian scholarly and literary works, and Armenian cultural material worldwide. Through the AGBU, the Manoogians funded schools for ethnic Armenians in Southfield, Michigan ; Los Angeles, California ; Buenos Aires , Argentina ; Sydney , Australia ; Beirut , Lebanon ; Zahle, Lebanon ; Egypt ; Tehran, Iran ; Montreal , Quebec ; Toronto , Ontario ; and Montevideo , Uruguay (all are named for the Manoogian family). Manoogian also funded numerous Armenian churches , cultural centers, university chairs for Armenian studies and museums worldwide. He donated generously to Wayne State University in Detroit. [5] Marie Manoogian died in 1993, and Alex in 1996. They were first interred in Detroit, Michigan. [5] In 2007 they were reinterred with state honors in Armenia (see below). Legacy and honors [ edit ] Alex and Marie Manoogian Treasury Museum (1982), designed by the architect Baghdasar Arzoumanian in the grounds of the Mother See of Holy Etchmiadzin. [7] Manoogian Hall , Wayne State's center for international language and linguistics , is named after him. In 1966 the Manoogians donated their mansion to the city of Detroit. It is used today as the mayoral residence. In 1982 Alex and Marie Manoogian donated funds for the construction of a museum in their name, the Treasury House Museum, on the grounds of the Mother See of Holy Etchmiadzin in Armenia. [7] 1990, was awarded the Ellis Island Medial of Honor. [5] 1993, Alex Manoogian was named a National Hero of Armenia and a citizen of Armenia by President Levon Ter Petrosian, the first person outside the country to be so honored. [5] 2007, at the invitation of the government of Armenia and the Armenian Apostolic Church , the remains of Marie and Alex Manoogian were moved and reinterred with full state honors on the grounds of Holy Etchmiadzin, in front of the Treasury Museum. The Archbishop, national officials and Louise Manoogian Simone , Richard Manoogian and others of their family attended the ceremony; the two children were among the speakers. [8] Alex Manoogian streets in Yerevan , the capital of Armenia ; in Montreal, Quebec , Canada; and in Stepanakert , the capital of Nagorno-Karabakh , were named in his honor. References [ edit ] ^ "Masco.com - Our Founder" . Archived from the original on 2015-04-02 . Retrieved 2015-03-11 . ^ In 1969, Masco Corporation was listed on the New York Stock Exchange - See more at: [1] ^ NYSE - XNYS:MAS ^ In 1954, he patented and brought to market the first successful washerless ball valve faucet -- the Delta faucet -- named for the faucet cam shaped like the fourth letter of the Greek alphabet - See more at: Masco - Our Founder Archived 2015-04-02 at the Wayback Machine ^ a b c d e f Van Gelder, Lawrence (1996-07-13). "Alex Manoogian, 95; Perfected Design of Single-Handled Faucet" . New York Times . Retrieved 2008-08-12 . ^ Tutag, Nola Huse with Lucy Hamilton (1988). Discovering Stained Glass in Detroit . Wayne State University Press. ISBN 0-8143-1875-4 . , p. 99. ^ a b "Alex and Marie Manoogian Museum" Archived 2009-08-13 at the Wayback Machine , The Armenian Church, accessed 25 March 2011. ^ "Alex and Marie Manoogian Interred in Holy Etchmiadzin", Mother See of Holy Etchmiadzin Information Services, 17 July 2007 External links [ edit ] United States portal Biography portal Steve Takesian, "Alex Manoogian" , Find A Grave v t e Masco Subsidiaries Behr Hansgrohe Merillat Industries Watkins Manufacturing Company People Morris Abrams Alex Manoogian Orville D. Merillat v t e Armenian General Benevolent Union Presidents Boghos Nubar Calouste Gulbenkian Zareh Nubar Arshag Karagheusian Alex Manoogian Louise Manoogian Simone Berge Setrakian Authority control International ISNI VIAF WorldCat National Germany v t e National Heroes of Armenia Vazgen I Viktor Hambardzumyan Alex Manoogian Movses Gorgisyan Geghaznik Mikaelyan [ hy ; ru ] Monte Melkonian Tatul Krpeyan Vitya Ayvazyan [ hy ; ru ] Jivan Abrahamyan [ hy ; ru ] Yura Poghosyan [ hy ; ru ] Karen Demirchyan Vazgen Sargsyan Kirk Kerkorian Charles Aznavour Nikolai Ryzhkov Eduardo Eurnekian Ohannes Tchekidjian Ruben Sanamyan Hrayr Hovakimyan Vahagn Asatryan Tiran Khachatryan Andranik Piloyan Garegin Poghosyan Tatul Ghazaryan [ hy ] Hrachia Andreasyan [ hy ] Gurgen Dalibaltayan Arkady Ter-Tadevosyan Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Alex_Manoogian&oldid=1130554024 " Categories : 1901 births 1996 deaths American people of Armenian descent Armenian businesspeople Ethnic Armenian businesspeople Armenian inventors Philanthropists from Michigan Smyrniote Armenians Emigrants from the Ottoman Empire to the United States People from İzmir Businesspeople from Detroit Presidents of the Armenian General Benevolent Union National Hero of Armenia 20th-century American businesspeople Armenian genocide survivors 20th-century American inventors 20th-century American philanthropists Hidden categories: Webarchive template wayback links Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Articles with hCards Articles containing Armenian-language text Articles with ISNI identifiers Articles with VIAF identifiers Articles with WorldCat identifiers Articles with GND identifiers This page was last edited on 30 December 2022, at 19:27 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0 ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement 