 Uvaa - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Languages Language links are at the top of the page across from the title. Search Create account Log in Personal tools Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Plot 2 Cast 3 Soundtrack 4 Critical response 5 References 6 External links Toggle the table of contents Toggle the table of contents Uvaa 1 language Cymraeg Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 2015 Indian film Uvaa Directed by Jasbir Bhatti Screenplay by Dharmendra V. Singh Shailendra Tiwari Bhupendra Singh Story by Jasbir Bhatti Produced by Anil D. Jethani Chandresh D. Jethani Starring Sanjay Mishra Jimmy Sheirgill Om Puri Vikrant Rai Archana Puran Singh Sangram Singh Aarun Nagar Cinematography Digvvijay Singh Edited by Prashant Singh Rathore Music by Original Songs Rashid Khan Palash Muchhal Production company Dhanraj Films Release date June 26, 2015 ( 2015-06-26 ) (Included with Inside Out ) Running time 120 minutes Country India Language Hindi Uvaa ( transl. Youth ) is a 2015 Indian comedy and social drama film, written and directed by Jasbir Bhatti [1] and produced by Dhanraj Films [2] about five friends in a boarding school and their daily life suddenly turning into a rebellious fight for justice and making an example for the outside world. The film stars Om Puri , Sanjay Mishra , Vikrant Rai , Jimmy Sheirgill , Sangram Singh , Rohan Mehra , and Archana Puran Singh , and includes several new faces as the lead actors of the film. Plot [ edit ] Anil ( Rohan Mehra ), Vikram (Lavin Gothi), Salmaan (Mohit Baghel) and Deenbandhu (Bhupendra "Megh" Singh) are rebellious brats of suburban Delhi NCR . With the world at their feet and nothing to worry about, they stomp everything in their path without caring about consequences. When the five are placed in the totally new world of convent school, they face new challenge. Their goal is to survive and thrive only to find romance, but one night they encounter a horrifying event which puts them in the hands of law. Their lives change forever as they have to fight for justice and moral integrity to make an example for the world. Cast [ edit ] Om Puri as Hukum Pratap Chaudhary Jimmy Sheirgill as S.P Tejaveer Singh Aarun Nagar as Inspector Prithvi Singh Manish Chaudhary as Lawyer Pramod Mittal Archana Puran Singh as Lawyer Jayshri Bhatiya Sangram Singh as Coach Sangram Singh Raju Mavani as Divan Ravi Verma as a Sub-inspector Rohan Mehra as Anil Sharma Mohit Baghel as Salman Khan Poonam Pandey as Pooja Sheena Bajaj as Rashmi Neha Khan as Mala Rajit Kapoor as Principal Elena Kazan as English Teacher Kanaklata Sanjay Mishra as Hindi Teacher Vyakulji Jyoti Kalash as Jailor Vinti Idnani as Nisha Yukti Kapoor as Roshni Jeetu Shivhare as Drama Teacher Sala Sir Shefali Singh as Yoga Teacher Gautam Gilhotra as Music Teacher Parikshit Sahni as Judge Vraddhi Sharma as Jyoti Vicky Aahuja as Shrikant Tyagi Padam Singh as Girish Sharma Lavin Gothi as Vikram Tyagi Vicky Roy as Ram Pratap Singh Bhupendra "Megh" Singh as Deenbandhu Soundtrack [ edit ] Uvaa Soundtrack album by Manoj, Rashid Khan, Praveen & Palash Muchhal Released 2 June 2015 ( 2015-June-02 ) [3] Genre Feature film soundtrack Length 25 : 34 Language Hindi Label Zee Music Company External audio Audio Jukebox on YouTube The music for Uvaa has been composed by Rashid Khan , Palash Muchal & Praveen-Manoj. The lyrics have been given by Bhupendra Singh Megh and Shiv Singh. [4] No. Title Lyrics Music Singer(s) Length 1. "Jiyo Lalla" Bhupendra Singh Praveen Bhardwaj & Manoj Jasraj Joshi 05:31 2. "Ishq Fobiya" Bhupendra Singh Rashid Khan Mohammed Irfan , Bhanu Pratap Singh 05:55 3. "Vande Mataram" Siddharth Mahadevan , Sujata Mazumdar, Poonam Pandey 1 4. "Natani" Bhupendra Singh, Shiv Palash Muchhal Sujata Mazumdar, Amit Mishra , Poonam Pandey 1 & Shiv Singh 03:40 5. "Ishq Fobiya Kyun" Bhupendra Singh Rashid Khan Mohammed Irfan & Palak Muchhal 05:55 Total length: 25 : 34 Critical response [ edit ] Renuka Vyavahare of The Times of India said that, "Uvaa (read youngsters) is one of those many films which touches upon a relevant topic but fails to capitalise on its potential." The critic gave the film a rating of 2 out of 5 and concluded her review saying that, "shoddy execution mars this potentially significant social drama." [5] Shaheen Parkar of Mid-Day gave the film a rating of 1.5 out of 5 and said that, "there’s nothing in the storyboard that enthralls you even for a few minutes." [6] Martin D'Souza of Glamsham gave the film a rating of 2 out of 5 saying that, "If only director Jasbir Bhatti had dwelt on the subject rather than concentrating on silly school scenes and even sillier teachers, we would have had a hard-hitting film on our hands." [7] Bollywood Life gave the film a rating of 1 out of 5 saying that, "Overall, the film is a poor attempt at driving home a relevant social message. A perfect case of good intention, bad execution." [8] References [ edit ] ^ "Jasbir B. Bhati | Videos, Wallpapers, Movies, Photos, Biography" . Bollywood Hungama . Retrieved 27 March 2015 . ^ "Dhanraj Films Pvt Ltd | Movie Companies | Bollywood Movies" . Bollywood Hungama . 14 June 2013 . Retrieved 27 March 2015 . ^ "Uvaa (Original Motion Picture Soundtrack)" . iTunes . ^ "Uvaa - 2015 - Zee Music Company" . Saavn . ^ "Uvaa Movie Review" . The Times of India . ^ " 'Uvaa' - Movie review" . Mid-Day . ^ "UVAA Movie Review: UVAA is a badly delivered voice of the youth" . Glamsham. ^ "Uvaa Movie Review: This Jimmy Shergill movie suffers from poor execution!" . Bollywood Life. External links [ edit ] Uvaa at IMDb Uvaa on Facebook Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Uvaa&oldid=1143313997 " Categories : 2015 films 2015 comedy-drama films Indian comedy-drama films 2010s Hindi-language films 2015 comedy films Hidden categories: Use dmy dates from September 2015 Use Indian English from September 2015 All Wikipedia articles written in Indian English Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Template film date with 1 release date Articles with hAudio microformats Album infoboxes lacking a cover Album articles lacking alt text for covers Track listings with input errors Pages using track listing with unknown parameters IMDb ID same as Wikidata This page was last edited on 7 March 2023, at 00:47 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0 ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement 