 Laguna Hills Technology Branch Library - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Languages Language links are at the top of the page across from the title. Search Create account Log in Personal tools Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 History 2 Technology 3 Collections 4 Services 5 References 6 External links Toggle the table of contents Toggle the table of contents Laguna Hills Technology Branch Library Add languages Add links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page . ( Learn how and when to remove these template messages ) This article needs to be updated . Please help update this article to reflect recent events or newly available information. ( January 2021 ) This article contains content that is written like an advertisement . Please help improve it by removing promotional content and inappropriate external links , and by adding encyclopedic content written from a neutral point of view . ( January 2021 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this template message ) This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Laguna Hills Technology Branch Library" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( January 2021 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this template message ) The topic of this article may not meet Wikipedia's general notability guideline . Please help to demonstrate the notability of the topic by citing reliable secondary sources that are independent of the topic and provide significant coverage of it beyond a mere trivial mention. If notability cannot be shown, the article is likely to be merged , redirected , or deleted . Find sources: "Laguna Hills Technology Branch Library" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( January 2021 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this template message ) This article possibly contains original research . Please improve it by verifying the claims made and adding inline citations . Statements consisting only of original research should be removed. ( January 2021 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this template message ) ( Learn how and when to remove this template message ) Public library in Orange County, California, United States Laguna Hills Technology Branch Library is one of two "technology branches" within the 33-branch Orange County Public Libraries (OCPL) system in Orange County , California . Laguna Hills Community Center & Sports Complex; Laguna Hills, CA; 2007. Computer Workstations at the Laguna Hills Technology Branch Library, 2007. Laguna Hills Technology Branch Library's Modest Circulating Collection, 2007. History [ edit ] The Library physically resides within the Laguna Hills Community Center and Sports Complex and has been operational since the center's grand opening on June 29, 2002. [1] Rather than maintaining extensive local collections of traditional library materials, this branch was designed to support public computer access while providing a modest circulating collection of books and magazines. [2] Technology [ edit ] The Laguna Hills Technology Branch Library provides high speed Internet access from eighteen filtered and unfiltered public computer terminals which patrons can use to access the Internet and any of the library’s online subscription-based databases. All workstations are also equipped with Microsoft Word , Excel , PowerPoint , Publisher , and Access . A black and white printer is available, copies cost 15 cents per page.Patrons can reserve computer time with an OCPL library card, which guarantees one hour of computer time per day. Time extensions (up to two hours) are provided as availability allows. Patrons are advised to bring their own USB flash drive if they want to save their work. For patrons who prefer to use their own laptops, the library also provides free Wi-Fi Internet access. Collections [ edit ] In addition to its computer workstations, the Laguna Hills Technology Branch Library offers a modest circulating collection of fiction and nonfiction books, including a special section of paleontology materials which relate to local fossil discoveries. The branch also provides local and regional newspapers, popular magazines, and a selection of Spanish language materials for children and adults. As part of OC Public Libraries, Laguna Hills Technology Branch Library shares collection materials with the county’s other 33 branches. Patrons are encouraged to browse the Online Public Access Catalog (OPAC) on-site or remotely via the Internet. Any books, magazines, or audiovisual materials which are not physically available at the Laguna Hills Technology Branch Library can be delivered from another branch for a 25 cent fee. Similarly, library materials may be returned to any other branch within the county system. In addition to physical collection materials, OC Public Libraries provide digital eAudiobooks which are available for download to anybody with an OC Public Libraries card. Services [ edit ] The Laguna Hills Technology Branch Library offers a full-time reference staff, interlibrary loan service, Wi-Fi Internet access, and ongoing one-on-one basic computer training sessions. The library also serves as a digital story center for the California of the Past program. California residents and former residents are able to schedule a session with the digital story station where they can record their personal memories of life in California. Literacy services are also available through Orange County’s READ/OC tutoring and training programs. References [ edit ] ^ Community Services Department, City of Laguna Hills. City of Laguna Hills Class and Activity Schedule . Summer, 2002. ^ City of Laguna Hills. “A World of Information Awaits You”. City News . Spring, 2004. External links [ edit ] Laguna Hills Community Center Coordinates : 33°35′30″N 117°42′01″W ﻿ / ﻿ 33.59172994360573°N 117.70039355777404°W ﻿ / 33.59172994360573; -117.70039355777404 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Laguna_Hills_Technology_Branch_Library&oldid=1125201229 " Categories : Libraries in Orange County, California Laguna Hills, California Public libraries in California Hidden categories: Wikipedia articles in need of updating from January 2021 All Wikipedia articles in need of updating Articles with a promotional tone from January 2021 All articles with a promotional tone Articles needing additional references from January 2021 All articles needing additional references Articles with topics of unclear notability from January 2021 All articles with topics of unclear notability Articles that may contain original research from January 2021 All articles that may contain original research Articles with multiple maintenance issues Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Coordinates on Wikidata This page was last edited on 2 December 2022, at 18:56 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0 ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement 