 Portuguese New Zealanders - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Languages Language links are at the top of the page across from the title. Search Create account Log in Personal tools Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 History 2 Portuguese New Zealanders 3 See also 4 References 5 External links Toggle the table of contents Toggle the table of contents Portuguese New Zealanders Add languages Add links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia This article needs to be updated . Please help update this article to reflect recent events or newly available information. ( November 2021 ) Portuguese New Zealanders Luso-Neozelandeses Total population Portuguese 1,365 New Zealanders Roughly 0.03% of New Zealand's population [1] Languages Portuguese · New Zealand English Portuguese Creole Religion Roman Catholicism · Protestantism Related ethnic groups Portuguese · Portuguese Australian · Portuguese Canadian · Portuguese Brazilian · Portuguese American Portuguese New Zealanders are either Portuguese who migrated to New Zealand, or New Zealanders of Portuguese descent. According to the latest 2018 New Zealand census, 447 residents of the country declared Portugal to be the place of their birth, and it is estimated that Portuguese migrants and their descendants number approximately 1,365, [2] up from 900 in 2006, and 1000 in 1996. On 22 April 2010, Portuguese New Zealanders were recognised by the Office of Ethnic Affairs as an official community of New Zealand, [3] having tied the 70th ribbon to Parliament's mooring stone on the Parliament House Galleria. [4] The Portuguese Embassy in Canberra , Australia is accredited to New Zealand, [5] while there are two honorary Portuguese consulates in New Zealand, [6] one in Wellington and the other in Auckland , both of which operate through the Portuguese Consulate-General in Sydney. As well as having been recognised as an official community, the Portuguese in New Zealand hold several annual meetings and celebrations such as Portugal Day , and are organised through a friendship association. [7] [8] History [ edit ] In the 19th and early 20th centuries there were more Portuguese than Spaniards in New Zealand. [9] This was probably a reflection in part of the close commercial links between Portugal and England. Portuguese were recorded amongst New Zealand's early colonists, one Ngāti Kahungunu family has a Portuguese whaler in its whakapapa (genealogical chart), Auckland singer Bill Worsfold [10] claims to be the descendant of this whaler, and wrote a ballad about his tough life and arrival in New Zealand. [11] Other arrivals included António Rodrigues who migrated from the island of Madeira with his wife in the 19th Century and eventually settled in Akaroa [12] where he built the "Madeira Pub Hotel", which is still in activity. [13] Another early settler was Francisco Rodrigues Figueira , also from Madeira who owned a prison labour gum-digger's camp in West Auckland in the late 19th century. Known as "Don Buck", Figueira was a colourful and violent character and he is remembered in such west Auckland placenames as Don Buck Road, Don Buck Primary School, and Don Buck Corner Reserve. [14] In the mid-20th century, Portuguese migration to New Zealand nearly stagnated with only 12 Portugal-born migrants being registered in the 1951 census, but the Portuguese diaspora gained a new momentum in the 1960s, and later after the Carnation Revolution when the number of Portuguese migrants to New Zealand rose even further. Portuguese-born Dutch photographer, Fernando Pereira , was the only victim of the sinking of the Rainbow Warrior in the port of Auckland. On 10 July 1985, two French DGSE agents bombed the Rainbow Warrior , Greenpeace 's flagship, which was scheduled to depart New Zealand to disrupt nuclear testing in French Polynesia . This was to date the only foreign attack on New Zealand's soil. Today, the Portuguese are part of an even larger Portuguese-speaking community in New Zealand, that also includes Brazilians, East Timorese, Macanese and Cape Verdeans . Despite constituting 0.03% of New Zealand's population, some 0.22% of New Zealanders speak Portuguese according to the latest Census. Portuguese New Zealanders [ edit ] Name Birth and Death Occupation Notes Brooke Fraser 1983 – Singer Songwriter Portuguese Descent Bernie Fraser (rugby union) 1953 - Rugby union player Portuguese Descent Melanie Rodriga 1954 - Film maker , Lecturer , Author Portuguese Descent Manoel Santos 1940 - 2013 Boxer Portuguese Descent Joseph Musaphia 1935 - Writer, actor Portuguese Descent See also [ edit ] European New Zealanders Europeans in Oceania Immigration to New Zealand Portuguese immigration to Hawaii Pākehā References [ edit ] ^ "2018 Census ethnic group profiles: Portuguese" . Archived from the original on 23 September 2019. ^ 2018 Census ethnic group profiles: Portuguese New Zealand 2018 Census ^ " Mundo Português (Portuguese) " ^ " Portuguese community add their ribbon to Parliament's mooring stone " New Zealand Parliament ^ Portugal , Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade ^ " Communities Secretariat, Portuguese Government (Portuguese) " ^ Amigos De Portugal Nova Zelandia ^ " Communities Secretariat, Portuguese Government (Portuguese) " ^ " TeAra, New Zealand Government " ^ " "Bill & Kath Worsfold website ^ " Youtube – Bill Worsfold "I only spoke Portuguese" " ^ " Story: Other Western Europeans Part of page 2 – Spain and Portugal " TeAra, New Zealand Government ^ " Madeira Hotel " ^ " Francisco Rodrigues Figueira " TeAra Biographies, New Zealand Government External links [ edit ] Consulate General of Portugal, Sydney v t e Portuguese diaspora Africa ( Luso-Africans ) Angola Guinea-Bissau Mozambique South Africa Americas Argentina Brazil Pardos Canada Guyana Mexico Suriname Trinidad and Tobago United States Hawaii New Jersey Uruguay Venezuela Asia India Jews Indonesia Indo Mardijker Macau Malaysia Pakistan Sri Lanka Burghers Mestiços Middle East Israel Turkey Europe France Germany Luxembourg Netherlands Jews Sweden United Kingdom Jews Oceania Australia Hawaii New Zealand v t e New Zealand people Indigenous Māori Moriori Africa Egyptian South African Zimbabwean Americas American Canadian Mexican Asia Afghan Arab Iraqi Lebanese Syrian Assyrian Bangladeshi Burmese Chinese Filipino Indian Punjabi Tamil Indonesian Iranian Israeli Jewish Japanese Korean Malaysian Nepali Pakistani Punjabi Sri Lankan Thai Turkish Vietnamese Europe Albanian Austrian British Scottish Welsh Croatian Dutch French German Greek Hungarian Irish Italian Polish Portuguese Roma Scandinavian Danish Norwegian Serbian Spanish Ukrainian Oceania Australian Pasifika Rotuman Samoan Tongan New Zealanders Immigration to New Zealand Immigration New Zealand Refugees in New Zealand List of ethnic origins of New Zealanders Portals : New Zealand Portugal Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portuguese_New_Zealanders&oldid=1146313727 " Categories : European New Zealander New Zealand people of Portuguese descent Portuguese diaspora in Oceania Hidden categories: Wikipedia articles in need of updating from November 2021 All Wikipedia articles in need of updating Use dmy dates from June 2020 "Related ethnic groups" needing confirmation This page was last edited on 24 March 2023, at 03:11 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0 ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement 