 Columbia Academy (Tennessee) - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Languages Language links are at the top of the page across from the title. Search Create account Log in Personal tools Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 History Toggle History subsection 1.1 Columbia Military Academy 2 Campus Toggle Campus subsection 2.1 Spring Hill Campus 3 Athletics Toggle Athletics subsection 3.1 Anderson Fieldhouse 4 Notable alumni 5 References Toggle the table of contents Toggle the table of contents Columbia Academy (Tennessee) 1 language مصرى Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Private school in Columbia, Tennessee, US This article relies excessively on references to primary sources . Please improve this article by adding secondary or tertiary sources . Find sources: "Columbia Academy" Tennessee – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( December 2018 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this template message ) Columbia Academy Address 1101 West 7th St Columbia , Tennessee 38401 Coordinates 35°37′00″N 87°03′24″W ﻿ / ﻿ 35.616610°N 87.056800°W ﻿ / 35.616610; -87.056800 Information Former name Columbia Military Academy (1905-1979) [1] Type Independent coeducational college-preparatory Motto "Christian Education in a Tradition of Excellence since 1979" Religious affiliation(s) Christian church of Christ Established 1979 Accreditation AdvancED President Dr James Thomas [2] Principal Jon Bennett Trent Hill (Lower-School) Nathan Hixson (Spring Hill Campus) Grades PreK-12 Enrollment 955 [2] Student to teacher ratio 17:1 [2] Campuses (2) Columbia, TN Spring Hill, TN (Satellite Campus) Color(s) Red, White, & Navy Athletics conference TSSAA - Division I-AA Mascot Bulldogs Website www .cabulldogs .org Columbia Academy (CA) is a private, college preparatory, co-educational, Christian school for students in grades Pre-K-12 located in Columbia, Tennessee . [2] CA was founded in 1905 as Columbia Military Academy (CMA) on the campus of a closed U.S. Army arsenal. [3] The school lasted until 1979 when it was turned over to a local Christian group that reorganized the school as a private Christian day school, removing all military aspects. [1] History [ edit ] Columbia Military Academy [ edit ] Visit Columbia Military Academy The CA campus was proposed in the 1880s and approved by President Grover Cleveland in 1888. In 1891 it opened as an arsenal for the U.S. Army. The arsenal closed following the Spanish–American War and was declared surplus property in 1901. In 1904 the property opened as Columbia Military Academy . CMA went through periods of highs and lows, even briefly closing in the mid 1930s. In its final years the school began to struggle with enrollment. With the recent civil rights movements leading to the desegregation of public schools, many private day schools began popping up across the country, that mixed with the controversies around the Vietnam War led to lower rates of students going to military school. In its last year of CMA the school began to allow civilian females as day students. The school officially closed in early 1979 and was turned over to a local Christian group. The school reopened that same year as a co-ed private Christian day school, removing "military" from the school's name. [3] [1] Campus [ edit ] The CA campus covers 67 acres (27 ha) between Trotwood Av and West 7th St in downtown Columbia, TN . [2] The campus is on the National Register of Historic Places . [4] Campus buildings include: Polk Hall (High School) Science Hall (Middle School) Vest Hall (Lower School) Lovell Hall (Old Gymnasium) Anderson Fieldhouse (Gym and Football Stadium) JJ Savage Field (Football Field) Ragsdale Hall (Financial Office) Academy Hall (Administration Office) CMA Guard House (CMA Museum) Spring Hill Campus [ edit ] In 2010 CA opened its first and only satellite campus on Beechcroft Rd in Spring Hill, TN . The campus houses grades preK-5th. [2] Athletics [ edit ] The 2018 Columbia Academy baseball team won the D1-A state championship. The baseball team also won state the D1-A championship in 1994. The school has Football, Baseball, Softball, Men's & Woman's Basketball, Bowling, Track & Field, Cross Country, Volleyball, Golf, Trap Shooting, Tennis, Swimming, Cheerleading, and youth sports programs. Anderson Fieldhouse [ edit ] In 2011 Columbia Academy launched "Vision 2020", a $10 Million Capital Campaign for school improvements. The centerpiece of the campaign was a $6 Million athletic facility to house both Basketball & Football locker rooms, a state of the art Basketball gym and weight room, and also serve as the home stands for football games. [5] The lead donors for the project were Tom and Jade Anderson who raised $9.2 Million for the campaign. The football stands were opened for the fall 2012 football season, but the rest of the facility, including locker rooms, were unfinished. On January 25, 2013 the Fieldhouse officially opened. [6] Notable alumni [ edit ] Lynnette Cole , Miss Tennessee USA 2000 and Miss USA 2000 [7] References [ edit ] ^ a b c Collections, Vanderbilt University Special (28 August 2006). "Preparatory Academies and Vanderbilt University" . exhibits.library.vanderbilt.edu . ^ a b c d e f "Academy Profile - Columbia Academy" . www.cabulldogs.org . ^ a b "Columbia Military Academy Alumni Association (CMAAA)" . www.cmaaa.com . ^ "NRHP Doc" . ^ "News" (PDF) . www.cabulldogs.org . ^ "Grand opening" (PDF) . www.cabulldogs.org . ^ "Catching up with Lynnette Cole: Miss USA from Columbia travels around the world in her job" . Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Columbia_Academy_(Tennessee)&oldid=1132990920 " Categories : Schools in Davidson County, Tennessee Private K-12 schools in Tennessee Schools in Nashville, Tennessee Educational institutions established in 1979 Preparatory schools in Tennessee 1979 establishments in Tennessee Schools accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Articles lacking reliable references from December 2018 All articles lacking reliable references Infobox mapframe without OSM relation ID on Wikidata Pages using the Kartographer extension This page was last edited on 11 January 2023, at 18:33 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0 ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement 