 Rules of the Supreme Court - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Languages Language links are at the top of the page across from the title. Search Create account Log in Personal tools Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 History Toggle History subsection 1.1 The original 1883 Rules 1.2 The revised 1965 Rules 2 Format 3 Replacement 4 References 5 See also Toggle the table of contents Toggle the table of contents Rules of the Supreme Court Add languages Add links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia For Rules of the Supreme Court of the United States, see Procedures of the Supreme Court of the United States . This article is part of the series: Courts of England and Wales Law of England and Wales Administration Ministry of Justice Secretary of State for Justice His Majesty's Courts and Tribunals Service Judges' Council Civil and family courts Supreme Court of the United Kingdom Privy Council Court of Appeal Master of the Rolls Court of Appeal judge High Court of Justice President of the King's Bench President of the Family Division Chancellor of the High Court High Court judge County Court List of County Court venues County Court Business Centre District judge Family Court Court of Protection Court of Chivalry Criminal courts Supreme Court of the United Kingdom Court of Appeal Lord Chief Justice Court of Appeal judge High Court of Justice President of the King's Bench High Court judge Crown Court List of Crown Court venues Circuit judge Recorder Magistrates' courts District judge Justice of the peace / lay magistrates Criminal prosecution Attorney General Director of Public Prosecutions Crown Prosecution Service Legal profession Bar Council Barrister Law Society of England and Wales Solicitor Solicitor advocate v t e The Rules of the Supreme Court ( RSC ) were the rules which governed civil procedure in the Supreme Court of Judicature of England and Wales (since 2009 called the Senior Courts) from its formation in 1883 until 1999. The RSC applied to all civil cases in the Supreme Court in England and Wales commenced after the merger of the courts of common law and equity in 1883 by the Judicature Acts until they were superseded by the Civil Procedure Rules (CPR) in 1999 on 26 April 1999. Civil proceedings in the county courts during this period were governed by the separate County Court Rules . The RSC were designed to replace the individual rules of the courts of law and equity which were subsumed into the Supreme Court providing one harmonised set of procedural rules for all civil cases. History [ edit ] The original 1883 Rules [ edit ] Beginning in 1873 the Judicature Acts merged the previously separate English courts of common law and equity into the new Supreme Court of Judicature made up of the Court of Appeal and High Court of Justice . The rules and procedures of the old courts and systems of law differed greatly. As common law and equity would now be applied in the same courts, the judiciary felt that there should be common procedural rules for both systems of law. The RSC were created in 1883 and were made up of Orders and Acts of Parliament . Over time the original orders and acts were supplemented by further of the same. By 1951 the RSC were made up of some 144 separate Orders and Rules and nine Acts of Parliament. [1] The revised 1965 Rules [ edit ] In 1951 the Evershed Committee on Supreme Court Practice and Procedure published its Second Interim Report in which it strongly recommended that "a complete revision of the Rules be immediately put in hand". [2] The process consisted of a Rule Committee of the Supreme Court revising and re-writing the entire body of rules governing civil procedure in the Supreme Court. The process was undertaken in two stages. First, around half of the Rules were revised and reintroduced on 1 January 1964 by R. S. C. (Revision) 1962 (SI 1962/2145). Second, the remaining original Rules were revised and reintroduced by R.S.C. (Revision) 1965 (SI 1965/1776) which also embodied the 1962 Revised Rules. This gave the Supreme Court, for the first time, one complete, integral body of procedural rules. The revised RSC came into force on 1 October 1966. Format [ edit ] The RSC consisted of Orders which concerned specific topics and paragraphs within each order on the specifics. For example, RSC Order 5 concerned the Mode of Beginning Proceedings in High Court, with paragraphs concerning when proceedings must be issued by writ , originating summons , originating motion or petition . Appendix A of the RSC contained Form Precedents which were compulsory in cases governed by the Rules. These included, inter alia, writs of summons, writs of subpoena, writs and notices for use in enforcement, judgements. Replacement [ edit ] The RSC are being gradually replaced by the CPR following the Woolf Reforms . Most of the procedural rules were replaced on 26 April 1999 when the CPR came into force. Some elements of the RSC, especially concerning enforcement of judgments, were integrated into Schedule 1 of the CPR. These are being slowly replaced by new CPR rules as the law in the areas covered by the RSC Orders is reformed. Only 11 RSC Orders now remain in CPR Schedule 1. References [ edit ] ^ The Supreme Court Practice 1967, Volume 1, Preface to the First Edition ^ Evershed Committee on Supreme Court Practice and Procedure Second Interim Report in 1951 (Cmd. 8176, para. 117) See also [ edit ] Civil Jurisdiction and Judgments Act 1982 Civil Procedure Rules Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Rules_of_the_Supreme_Court&oldid=1143556144 " Categories : Codes of civil procedure 1883 in British law 1965 in British law Statutory Instruments of the United Kingdom Hidden category: Use dmy dates from April 2022 This page was last edited on 8 March 2023, at 13:32 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0 ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement 