 Ali Murad Davudi - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Languages Language links are at the top of the page across from the title. Search Create account Log in Personal tools Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Early life and education 2 Baháʼí life 3 After the Iranian revolution 4 Disappearance 5 See also 6 References 7 Further reading Toggle the table of contents Toggle the table of contents Ali Murad Davudi 3 languages Español فارسی مصرى Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Ali Murad Davudi Born 1922 Shams-Abad, Iranian Azerbaijan , Iran Died November 11, 1979 (1979-11-11) (aged 56–57) Tehran , Iran Occupation Professor at Tehran University Known for Outstanding work in translation, philosophy, and leadership in the Baháí community Dr Ali Murad Davudi (1922–1979?) was an Iranian Baháʼí who was a member of the national governing body of the Baháʼís in Iran. He was a professor at Tehran University in the philosophy department. [1] In 1979, during a wave of persecution toward Baháʼís , he was kidnapped and has been presumed a victim of state execution. [2] Early life and education [ edit ] Ali Murad Davudi was born in the small village of Shams-Abad in Iranian Azerbaijan in 1922. He was the great-grandson of Fath-Ali Shah Qajar through his mother, and his father was the grandson of the commander of Georgia . When he was ten years old, Davudi went to Tabriz where he lived for the next eight years. When he finished high school in Tabriz, Davudi traveled to Tehran where he entered a teacher training college and studied education, literature and philosophy; he graduated after three years. He then traveled to various Iranian towns and taught Persian literature . While he was in Zanjan he married Malikih Afagh Iranpoor at the age of 31; they had two sons and three daughters. [2] In 1955, at the age of 33, Davudi moved once again to Tehran to study philosophy at Tehran University while also working full-time as a school teacher. He then travelled to France , where he stayed for one year, to improve his French , which he later used to translate many French philosophical texts. In 1964 he completed his Ph.D. with a thesis on the philosophy of Aristotle and Descartes and was then invited to join Tehran University's faculty where he became a professor. [2] Hossein Nasr , a well-known Iranian professor at George Washington University counted Davudi among a small number of first rate philosophers in Iran. [3] Dr. ʻAli-Murad Davudi eventually became the chairman of the philosophy department at the university until shortly after the Iranian Revolution . During his academic career he wrote many works on the history of Greek and Islamic philosophy , in addition to writing articles on Baháʼí philosophical and theological themes. [1] He also translated many French language philosophical works in Persian and were published by Tehran University Press. [2] Baháʼí life [ edit ] Davudi was a life-long Baháʼí . In 1973 he was elected to the Iranian Baháʼí National Spiritual Assembly (NSA) which is the governing body of the Baháʼís of Iran. One year later, he became the secretary of that body, which necessitated travel throughout the country, which left him little time for his academic work. In addition to his administrative work, he also served on the Baháʼí national publishing committees, and also helped establish the Institute for Advanced Baháʼí Studies in 1976 to promote Baháʼí scholarship and research, an initiative proposed by the Universal House of Justice , the governing body of the Baháʼís worldwide. Davudi developed much of the Institute's curriculum which included classes on philosophy and mysticism with an emphasis on the study of primary texts rather than commentary. [2] Professor Davudi would also give regular Baháʼí study classes to the Baháʼí youth in Tehran and in summer schools across the country. He would also regularly go to the recording studio where he would tape lectures which would be distributed through cassettes to the Baháʼí community. Some of his writings on the Baháʼí themes such as the "Station of Baháʼu'lláh " and " Divinity and Oneness " study some of the religion's foundational aspects. He also wrote essays on the Baháʼí teachings on life after death; the meaning of freedom; freewill and determinism; the station of man; prayer; the soul; philosophy; the study of history; science and religion; and non-involvement in politics. Many of his works were published in Baháʼí journals in Iran. [2] After the Iranian revolution [ edit ] After the Iranian revolution in 1979, the Society of Muslim Students declared Professor Davudi as "anti-Islamic" and "anti-revolutionary"; members of militant Islamic groups regularly gathered outside his house, and thus he found that he could not continue to work as a professor and resigned from the university. After the Iranian revolution the persecution of Baháʼís was escalating, and Davudi was one of the most visible members of the National Spiritual Assembly, which had to defend the rights of its members to the government. As secretary of the NSA he also regularly interacted with the Baháʼí community through letters and talks, encouraging them to be patient through the persecution, and co-ordinating the relief efforts. His daughter, who did not live in Iran, fearing for her father's life, traveled to Iran a few months after the Revolution and asked her father to go to the United States or Canada . While being aware of the danger he was facing, Davudi refused stating that the Baháʼí community in Iran needed him. [2] Disappearance [ edit ] On November 11, 1979, while he was walking alone in a park near his home in Tehran , Davudi was kidnapped and was never seen again. The Liberation Front newspaper wrote the headline "Dr Davudi, University Professor is Kidnapped". While the Iranian government denied any involvement, later three Revolutionary Guards admitted that Professor Davudi had been kidnapped on the order of the government. He has been presumed dead. [2] See also [ edit ] List of kidnappings List of people who disappeared References [ edit ] ^ a b Walbridge, John. Essays and Notes on Babi and Baha'i History (PDF) . East Lansing, Michigan: Michigan State University. ^ a b c d e f g h Doostdar, Novin (1999–2000). "Obituaries" . Baháʼí Studies Review . 9 (1). ^ Nasr, S. H. (1996). Mehdi Aminrazavi (ed.). The Islamic Intellectual Tradition in Persia . London: Curzon Press. pp. 325–326. ISBN 0-7007-0314-4 . Further reading [ edit ] Davudi, Ali Murad (2013). Human Station in the Baháʼí Faith: Selected Sections: Philosophy and Knowledge of the Divine. Juxta Publishing Co., Hong Kong. Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Ali_Murad_Davudi&oldid=1135865330 " Categories : 1922 births 1970s missing person cases 1979 deaths 20th-century Bahá'ís Faculty of Letters and Humanities of the University of Tehran alumni Enforced disappearances in Iran Iranian Bahá'ís Iranian terrorism victims Missing people Missing person cases in Iran Hidden category: Articles with hCards This page was last edited on 27 January 2023, at 09:48 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0 ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement 