 Nemrik 9 - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Languages Language links are at the top of the page across from the title. Search Create account Log in Personal tools Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 References 2 External links Toggle the table of contents Toggle the table of contents Nemrik 9 5 languages العربية Català Español Français Polski Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Archaeological site in Iraq Nemrik 9 Shown within Iraq Location Iraq Region Dohuk Governorate Coordinates 36°43′00″N 42°51′00″E ﻿ / ﻿ 36.716667°N 42.85°E ﻿ / 36.716667; 42.85 Type Tell Area 1.8 hectares (18,000 m 2 ) History Material Mudbrick Founded c. 9800 BC Abandoned c. 8270 BC Periods Khiamian , PPNA , PPNB Site notes Excavation dates 1985–1987 Archaeologists Stefan Karol Kozlowski Karol Szymczak Nemrik 9 is an early Neolithic archeological site in the Dohuk Governorate in the north of modern-day Iraq . [1] The site covers an area of approximately 1.8 hectares (18,000 m 2 ) [1] and was excavated between 1985 and 1989 on behalf of the Polish Centre of Mediterranean Archaeology University of Warsaw by Stefan Karol Kozlowski and Karol Szymczak ( University of Warsaw ) as part of the Eski Mosul ( Saddam Dam ) Salvage Project. [2] [3] [4] It is located on a terrace of the Tigris near the Kurdish Mountains and sits at an altitude of 345 metres (1,132 ft) above sea level. Numerous rounded buildings were found along with evidence of communal courtyards. Buildings featured post holes and benches with walls that were made of mudbrick and plastered with clay. Several graves were found containing anything from skull fragments to full skeletons . Stone tools found at the site included pestles , mortars, quern-stones , grinders, axes and polishing stones. Some rare examples of worked stone were discovered including one piece made from marble . Some decorative adornments were also found, including beads, pendants, shell and bone ornaments. Some stone and clay art objects were recovered in the shapes of heads and animals, these included a series of sixteen bird heads. [1] Faunal analysis was carried out by A. Lasota-Moskalewska and found relatively few remains from domestic sheep, goats, pigs and cattle. Other bones found included various antelope , jackal , deer , boar , badger , and horse . Some snail shells were found that were also considered to be a food source. There was also evidence of panther and Indian buffalo . Plant remains at the site were floated by Mark Nesbitt and indicated evidence for bitter vetch , pea and lentil , the domestication of which was not determined. The site was well situated between the two terrain types of grassy steppe and forest and is considered of key importance for research into village structures in the Pre-Pottery Neolithic A stage. [1] References [ edit ] Iraq portal History portal Asia portal ^ a b c d Kozlowski, Stefan Karol (1989). "Nemrik 9, a PPN Neolithic site in Northern Iraq" . Paléorient . 15 (1): 25–31. doi : 10.3406/paleo.1989.4482 . ^ Kozłowski, S. K., Kempisty, A., Mazurowski R., Reiche, A. & Szymczak, K., "Second report on the excavations of the Pre-pottery Neolithic site Nemrik 9 in 1986, Saddam’s Dam Salvage Project.", Sumer, vol. 46, pp. 13–18, 1990 ^ Kozłowski, S. K., Kempisty, A., Szymczak, K., Mazurowski R., Reiche, A. & Borkowski, W., "A preliminary report on the third season 1987 of the Polish excavations at Nemrik 9, Saddam’s Dam Salvage Project.", Sumer, vol. 46, pp. 19–24, 1990 ^ Kozłowski, S. K., Borkowski, W., Kempisty, A., Mazurowski, R., Szymczak, K. & Reiche, A., "Fourth report on the excavations of the Pre-pottery Neolithic site Nemrik 9.", Sumer, vol. 46, pp. 26–29, 1990 External links [ edit ] www.exoriente.org - Radiocarbon dates for Nemrik 9 University of Cologne - Radiocarbon Context Database entry for Nemrik 9 Nemrik - the PCMA UW site v t e Neolithic Southwest Asia Pre-Pottery Neolithic (10,500–7500 BP) Late Neolithic (8000–6100 BP) Cultures Pre-Pottery Pre-Pottery Neolithic A (PPNA) Pre-Pottery Neolithic B (PPNB) Pre-Pottery Neolithic C (PPNC) Zagros Neolithic Late Amuq A-B Hassuna Jarmoan Lodian (Jericho XI) Nizzanim Samarra Wadi Rabah Yarmukian Sites Pre-Pottery Abu Hudhud ʿAin Ghazal Ba'ja Basta Bawwab al-Ghazal Beidha Beisamoun Boncuklu Höyük Boncuklu Tarla Bouqras Çayönü Chia Jani Chia Sabz Dhuweila Dja'de el Mughara Ganj Dareh Gilgal I Göbekli Tepe Iraq ed-Dubb Jarmo Jerf el Ahmar Karahan Tepe Tell 'Abr 3 Tell Abu Hureyra Tell es-Sultan (Jericho) Tell Qaramel Tell Qarassa North Tayibe Tepe Abdul Hosein Tepe Asiab M'lefaat Mureybet Nahal Hemar Cave Nemrik 9 Netiv HaGdud Nevalı Çori Nachcharini Qermez Dere Sabra 1 Sheikh e-Abad Shkarat Msaeid Shubayqa 6 Wadi Faynan 16 Wadi Shuʿeib Yiftahel Zumlat Arus Late Abu Hamid Abu Masiyad al-Gharbi Abu Masiyad al-Sharqi Ayn Jammam Ayn Rahub Bestansur Byblos Dhuweila El-Hemmeh Ghuwayr 1 Ginnig Hallan Çemi Hibabiya Ibn el Ghazi Jabal Na'ja Jabal Quweisa Jebel Abu Thawwab Jebel Qurma Jebel Subhi Kfar HaHoresh Khabrat Abu Hussein Khallat Anaza Kharaysin Kaukaba Khirbet Hammam Khirbet al-Dharih Matarrah Mugharat al-Jawa Munhata Muraybet Mushash 163 Sayyeh Sha'ar HaGolan Tabaqat al-Bûma Tell Abu Suwwan Tell Ghoraifé Tell Hassuna Tell Shemshara Tell es-Sawwan Teleilat el Ghassul Umm Dabaghiyah Wadi Jilat 7 Wadi Shuʿeib Zumlat Arus Concepts Neolithic Revolution Founder crops Neolithic demographic transition Neolithic decline Neolithic package Vavilov centre Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Nemrik_9&oldid=1088991707 " Categories : 1985 archaeological discoveries Archaeological sites in Iraq Former populated places in Iraq Neolithic settlements Khiamian sites Dohuk Governorate Pre-Pottery Neolithic A Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Use dmy dates from January 2021 This page was last edited on 21 May 2022, at 07:28 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0 ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement 