 Confidence (2003 film) - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Languages Language links are at the top of the page across from the title. Search Create account Log in Personal tools Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Plot 2 Cast 3 Production 4 Reception 5 Remake 6 References 7 External links Toggle the table of contents Toggle the table of contents Confidence (2003 film) 13 languages Català Deutsch Español فارسی Français 한국어 Italiano Nederlands 日本語 Русский Suomi Svenska Українська Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 2003 film by James Foley Confidence Theatrical release poster Directed by James Foley Written by Doug Jung Produced by Scott Bernstein Michael Burns Marc Butan Starring Edward Burns Rachel Weisz Andy García Paul Giamatti Donal Logue Luis Guzmán Brian Van Holt Franky G Robert Forster Leland Orser Morris Chestnut Dustin Hoffman Cinematography Juan Ruiz Anchía Edited by Stuart Levy Music by Christophe Beck Dave Crawford Distributed by Lions Gate Entertainment Release date April 25, 2003 ( 2003-04-25 ) Running time 97 minutes Country United States Language English Budget $15 million Box office $23 million Confidence is a 2003 American crime drama film starring Edward Burns , Dustin Hoffman , Andy Garcia and Rachel Weisz , directed by James Foley , and written by Doug Jung . Plot [ edit ] A group of grifters rip off their latest mark and celebrate, while de facto leader of the group Jake Vig ( Edward Burns ) explains the art of the con. When one of the four, Big Al ( Louis Lombardi ) is found shot to death, the other three learn that the latest money they stole actually belonged to a local L.A. crime lord called The King ( Dustin Hoffman ). Jake proposes that the grifters work for the King and steal money from Morgan Price ( Robert Forster ), a rival who owns a bank. Jake enlists the aid of his remaining partners, Gordo ( Paul Giamatti ) and Miles ( Brian Van Holt ), and also convinces an independent con artist named Lily ( Rachel Weisz ) to round out their foursome. The King, a ruthless killer who has ADHD , demands that one of his men, Lupus ( Franky G ), also come along. The con involves bribing a bank vice president into wiring money offshore. The plan hits a snag when Special Agent Gunther Butan ( Andy García ) shows up in L.A., looking to finally bust Jake, whom he has followed for years. Butan forces corrupt LAPD detectives Omar Manzano ( Luis Guzmán ) and Lloyd Whitworth ( Donal Logue ) to switch their allegiance from Jake to him. After hearing about Butan's arrival, a nervous Jake pulls the plug on the whole con. He screams at Lily, making her walk out. Lupus gets Jake to reconsider nixing the con, hinting that The King will torture and kill the grifters if the plan falls short. The con is back on, though now without Lily's help. The bribed bank VP wires the money to Gordo in Belize. Gordo brings it to Ontario Airport, where he is met by both Butan and The King's men, both sides after the $5 million in a duffel bag. Butan arrests The King and confiscates the money. Gordo disappears. Lupus, thinking the King has the money, reveals he was the one who killed Jake's grifter friend. Lupus holds Jake at gunpoint, but is shot by Travis ( Morris Chestnut ), a henchman for Morgan Price. It turns out that when Lily walked out, she went straight to Price himself and revealed the entire con, which was taking place that minute. Price told Travis to locate Jake and find out exactly how the con was engineered, to stop such a thing from ever happening again. Travis takes Jake to an abandoned lot and forces him to explain the entire story. A furious Lily takes out a gun and shoots Jake. Travis demands that he and Lily both disappear immediately. Minutes later, Butan arrives in a car and Jake sits up from a pool of blood, unharmed. The final parts of the con are revealed. Lily's "quitting" was faked—a set-up to confuse Lupus. Butan is actually an old confidant of Jake's. He managed to "confiscate" the money and arrest The King at the same time. Butan has the money and it's split five ways. Jake was wearing squibs to fake his own death in the lot. In the end, everyone was in on everything except for The King and Lupus (the first marks), Price and Travis (the second, bigger marks), and the two corrupt LAPD detectives, who have been arrested. The four grifters reunite and celebrate by driving off into the night. Cast [ edit ] Edward Burns as Jake Vig [1] Rachel Weisz as Lily [1] Andy García as Special Agent Gunther Butan [2] Dustin Hoffman as Winston "The King" King [2] Paul Giamatti as Gordo [3] Brian Van Holt as Miles Franky G as Lupus Luis Guzmán as Officer Omar Manzano Donal Logue as Officer Lloyd Whitworth Morris Chestnut as Travis Louis Lombardi as Alphonse "Big Al" Moorley John Carroll Lynch as Leon Ashby Robert Forster as Morgan Price Leland Orser as Lionel Dolby Production [ edit ] The movie was filmed on location at the Deep Nightclub in Hollywood , in Los Angeles and in Ontario, California . Reception [ edit ] Confidence received good reviews from critics, as the film holds a 70% rating on Rotten Tomatoes . Roger Ebert of the Chicago Sun-Times said, " Confidence is a flawless exercise about con games, and that is precisely its failing: It is an exercise. It fails to make us care, even a little, about the characters and what happens to them. There is nothing at stake. The screenplay gives away the game by having the entire story narrated in flashback by the hero, who treats it not as an adventure but as a series of devious deceptions which he can patiently explain to the man holding a gun on him--and to us. At the end, we can see how smart he is and how everybody was fooled, but we don't care. ... That's not to say the movie, directed by James Foley, is badly made. It's great-looking, with its film noir reds and greens and blues, its neon Bud Ice signs, its shadows and mean streets, its sleazy strip clubs and its use of wipes and swish-pans (sideways, up, down, sometimes two at a time). You know this is a crime movie, which is nice to be reminded of, except that every reminder also tells us it's only a movie, so that there is no possibility that we can commit to the characters, worry about them, want them to succeed or fail." [4] Remake [ edit ] The film was remade in Bollywood titled Ek Khiladi Ek Haseena . References [ edit ] ^ a b Sargeant, Amy (2016). Screen Hustles, Grifts and Stings: Stings, Grifts, Hustles and the Long Con . p. 63. ^ a b "Andy Garcia's 'Confidence' " . www.cbsnews.com . Retrieved 2019-07-23 . ^ "Confidence" . EW.com . Retrieved 2019-07-23 . ^ Ebert, Roger (April 25, 2003). "Confidence" . RogerEbert.com . Retrieved 2015-04-23 . External links [ edit ] Confidence at IMDb Confidence at Box Office Mojo Confidence at Rotten Tomatoes v t e Films directed by James Foley Reckless (1984) At Close Range (1986) Who's That Girl (1987) After Dark, My Sweet (1990) Glengarry Glen Ross (1992) Two Bits (1995) Fear (1996) The Chamber (1996) The Corruptor (1999) Confidence (2003) Perfect Stranger (2007) Fifty Shades Darker (2017) Fifty Shades Freed (2018) Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Confidence_(2003_film)&oldid=1146081997 " Categories : 2003 films 2003 crime thriller films American crime thriller films American heist films Films directed by James Foley Lionsgate films Fictional portrayals of the Los Angeles Police Department Films scored by Christophe Beck Films about con artists Films shot in Los Angeles Films set in Los Angeles 2000s English-language films 2000s American films Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Template film date with 1 release date IMDb ID same as Wikidata Rotten Tomatoes template using name parameter This page was last edited on 22 March 2023, at 17:36 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0 ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement 