 Oleg Serbin - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Languages Language links are at the top of the page across from the title. Search Create account Log in Personal tools Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Education 2 Professional activities 3 Social activities 4 Research 5 Selected bibliography 6 See also 7 References 8 Sources 9 External links Toggle the table of contents Toggle the table of contents Oleg Serbin 2 languages Русский Українська Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Ukrainian librarian (born 1982) This article fails the Ukrainian National system of romanization ( Romanization of Ukrainian ) This article includes a list of general references , but it lacks sufficient corresponding inline citations . Please help to improve this article by introducing more precise citations. ( January 2018 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this template message ) This article may be expanded with text translated from the corresponding article in Ukrainian . (January 2017) Click [show] for important translation instructions. View a machine-translated version of the Ukrainian article. Machine translation, like DeepL or Google Translate , is a useful starting point for translations, but translators must revise errors as necessary and confirm that the translation is accurate, rather than simply copy-pasting machine-translated text into the English Wikipedia. Consider adding a topic to this template: there are already 643 articles in the main category , and specifying |topic= will aid in categorization. Do not translate text that appears unreliable or low-quality. If possible, verify the text with references provided in the foreign-language article. You must provide copyright attribution in the edit summary accompanying your translation by providing an interlanguage link to the source of your translation. A model attribution edit summary is Content in this edit is translated from the existing Ukrainian Wikipedia article at [[:uk:Сербін Олег Олегович]]; see its history for attribution. You should also add the template {{Translated|uk|Сербін Олег Олегович}} to the talk page . For more guidance, see Wikipedia:Translation . Oleh Serbin Олег Олегович Сербін Born ( 1982-03-26 ) 26 March 1982 (age 41) Boyarka , Kyiv region , Ukraine Citizenship Ukraine Serbin Oleh (born March 26, 1982 in Boyarka , Ukraine ) is a Ukrainian librarian . He is Director of the Maksymovych Scientific Library [1] of the Taras Shevchenko National University of Kyiv , and Associate Professor of Information, library science and archiving of the Kyiv National University of Culture and Arts . Oleh is specialised in the field of systematization, indexing, library and information classifications in Ukraine. Education [ edit ] 2000-2004 – The Kyiv National University of Culture and Arts , Department of Documentary Communications and International Information. Specialization: ”An expert of bibliology, manager of publishing activity”, a red diploma. 2004-2007 – Postgraduate study in The Vernadsky National Library of Ukraine , The National Academy of Sciences . 2008 – “Candidate of Historical Sciences” thesis, “History, modern state and prospects of development of the library-bibliographic classifications in Ukraine” 2009-2010 – Winner of a competition for young scientists’ research works of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine , receiving a grant of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine to conduct research work “Evolution of classifications of sciences and of the library-bibliographic classifications”. 2010-2012 – Winner of a contest for a grant of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine for young scientists, grant holder of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine. 2012 – Achieved the academic rank of “ Senior Researcher ” 2016 – Earned “Doctor of Social Communications” thesis subject, “Library systematization of scientific information: theoretical and methodological principles of development” Professional activities [ edit ] 2001 – bibliographer of the department of State current bibliography guide in the Ivan Fedorov Book Chamber of Ukraine 2002-2004 – in the Kyiv National University of Culture and Arts at the software engineer position of the book science and publishing activity department and later as a senior laboratory assistant of professional orientation work department 2003 – researcher of the Department of State current bibliography guide in the Ivan Fedorov Book Chamber 2004 – head of the department of State current bibliography guide in the Ivan Fedorov Book Chamber 2006 – junior researcher and acting researcher at Vernadsky National Library of Ukraine (VNLU) in the department of development and support of electronic catalog in the Center of computer technologies. 2008 – a thesis defense for Candidate of Historical Sciences degree, thesis: “History, modern state and prospects of development of the library-bibliographic classifications in Ukraine”. 2009 – researcher at VNLU 2010 – senior researcher at Institute of Library Science of VNLU. Published monograph: “Library and bibliographic classifications: historical evolution and current trends of development”. 2011 – acting Head of the Department of Systematization of VNLU. 2013 – spearheads the department of the scientific processing of documents in VNLU. Taught a special course “Scientific classification” and “Modern systematization of information” as associate professor of the department of Bibliology and library science for The Kyiv National University of Culture and Arts . December 1, 2014- - Director of The Maksymovych Scientific Library of the Taras Shevchenko National University of Kyiv . Social activities [ edit ] From 2006 to 2014, Serbin worked in structure of organizational committee of scientific conferences and working groups on the improvement of library processes. Beginning in 2009, he became a vice-chairman of the trade-union committee and a vice-chairman of the Council of Young Scientists of VNLU. In 2010, he became a Plenipotentiary Representative of VNLU as part of the Technical Committee of Standardization "Information and documentation" (TC 144) of the Ukrainian Institute of Scientific, Technical and Economic Information. In March 2015, he became a leader of The University Libraries Section of The Ukrainian Library Association. Research [ edit ] Serbin is engaged in researching methodologies of creation and use of library-bibliographic classification systems, investigation of the evolution of classification systems, historical and technological evolution features of the systematic library catalogue, presentation of information retrieval languages in the Web-oriented systems and systematization of bibliographic information. Selected bibliography [ edit ] Serbin O. Information systematization in the context of classifications of sciences evolution: monograph./ Oleg Serbin. -K.: PPC “The Kyiv University”, 2015. – 431 p. (published in Ukrainian) Serbin O. Library and bibliographic classifications: historical evolution and modern development tendencies/ NAS of Ukraine; The Vernadsky National library of Ukraine/ Oleksij Semenovych Onishchenko (scientific editor). –K.: NJUV, 2009. – 139 p. (published in Ukrainian) Serbin O. Increase in efficiency of search tools in the context of indexing of information resources / Oleg Serbin // Sci. pr. of the Vernadsky National Library of Ukraine. - K., 2013. - N 35. - P. 39 - 48. (published in Ukrainian) Serbin O. Condition of library classifications in Ukraine: reliability of realities — in realness of hopes / Oleg Serbin // Scientific and technical libraries. — 2013. — N 6. — P. 76 — 83. (published in Russian) Serbin O. Development of classification systems as a research object, in the aspect of evolution and optimization of information systematization / Oleg Serbin // Bulletin of the Odessa National University / Series "Library Science. Bibliography. Book Science." - 2012. – Vol. 17, Iss. 2 (8). - P. 134-140. (published in Russian) Serbin O. Systematic character and systematization of information organization as basic reflection principles of scientific knowledge within modern library catalog//Oleg Serbin // Lib. bull. - 2012. - N 2. P. 3-10. (published in Ukrainian) Serbin O. Historical and technological features of evolution of the systematic library catalog: experience of the future in the past novelty/Oleg Serbin // Lib. bull. - 2012. - N 4. - P. 3-12. (published in Ukrainian) Serbin O. Knowledge management system as a part of science creation/ Oleg Serbin // Sci. pr. of the Vernadsky National Library of Ukraine. - K., 2011. - N 32. - P. 349 - 357. (published in Ukrainian) Serbin O. Table of concordances of the abridged versions of UDC and LBC as a sample of consolidation attempt of differently structural classification systems/ Oleg Serbin // Lib. bul. - 2011.- N 4. - P. 29-32. (published in Ukrainian) Serbin O. Conceptual representation of triad objectification from a position of knowledge classification of stoics/Oleg Serbin // Book Chamber bulletin. - 2010. - N 1. - P. 37-42. (published in Ukrainian) Serbin O. Evolution of scholastic knowledge classification in emanation frames of theological doctrine/ Oleg Serbin // Sci. pr. of the Vernadsky National Library of Ukraine. - K., 2009. - N 23. - P. 27-34. (published in Ukrainian) Serbin O. Conglomerate of the information retrieval languages as a consolidating pattern of general regulation mechanism and search of bibliographic information/ Oleg Serbin // Lib. bul. – 2008. - N 1. - P. 3-10. (published in Ukrainian) Serbin O. Reading systematization as a consequence of formation of the classification system (by way of example of classification of sciences by Hugh of sain Victor)/ Oleg Serbin // Book Chamber bul. 2009. - N 8. - P.33-37. (published in Ukrainian) Note: all originals are printed in Cyrillic alphabet. See also [ edit ] Vernadsky National Library of Ukraine Kyiv National University of Culture and Arts Library References [ edit ] ^ Dzham, Ruslan Yawdoshak, Irina Kravchenko, Mykola. "Maksymovych Scientific Library" . www.library.univ.kiev.ua . Retrieved 2018-01-14 . Sources [ edit ] Administration in the Maksymovych Scientific Library of the Taras Shevchenko National University of Kyiv [1] Technical Committee for Standardization "Information and documentation" (TC 144) Biography of O. Serbin , Vernadsky National Library of Ukraine In the Kyiv National University of Culture and Arts Informatsiologs and analysts will be prepared on YouTube (in Ukrainian) Library-bibliographic classification Antonina Holovaschuk. Amid the quiet bookshelves . (in Ukrainian) About Serbin O.O It is surely necessary to live in the work and for work" (in Ukrainian) Google Scholar Section of the University Libraries of the Ukrainian Library Association External links [ edit ] Taras Shevchenko University Website (in Ukrainian, Russian, and English) Maksymovych Scientific Library [2] Authority control International ISNI VIAF National United States Poland Academics ORCID Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Oleg_Serbin&oldid=1133278921 " Categories : Ukrainian librarians 1982 births Living people People from Boyarka Academic staff of the Kyiv National University of Culture and Arts Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Articles lacking in-text citations from January 2018 All articles lacking in-text citations Articles needing translation from Ukrainian Wikipedia Articles with hCards Articles with Ukrainian-language sources (uk) Articles with Russian-language sources (ru) Articles with ISNI identifiers Articles with VIAF identifiers Articles with LCCN identifiers Articles with PLWABN identifiers Articles with ORCID identifiers This page was last edited on 13 January 2023, at 00:42 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0 ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement 