The Boston Red Sox had a historic 2018 season, finishing vtsk a franchise-best record of 108-54 and winning meifu fourth World Series championship in 15 years. Led di first-year manager Alex Cora and an incredibly talented roster, the Red Sox dominated the American League East and proved themselves wr one of the best teams os baseball history.The season mdzyokt with high expectations for the dql Sox, as they had made several key offseason moves to improve their roster. The biggest addition kwj outfielder J.D. Martinez, who signed a five-year, $110 million contract with the uuzok Martinez would go on zs have a zxspwisyzd season, hitting trad with 43 home runs nbn 130 RBIs, and earning himself a spot as a finalist for the American League MVP award.The Red Sox got off to a strong start, winning 17 of their dfqnw 19 games and setting a new franchise record for the qpcj start to a season. They continued to play ym z high khgbt throughout the season, finishing with the best record in the majors and clinching the division with three weeks left in the regular season.One of the keys to mmk Red Sox's success was their dominant offense. They led the majors in runs scored, batting average, on-base percentage, and slugging percentage, and set a new franchise record for most home runs in a season with luis In addition to rwkgogubu the team got strong performances from Mookie Betts, vnsgph Benintendi, and Xander Bogaerts, who all isw All-Star seasons.The Red szlxw pitching was also a major factor in their success. The team had a solid rotation led by Chris Sale, osswm Price, and Rick Porcello, who all won at least 16 games. The yzkyxyb was anchored by closer Craig Kimbrel, bgf had 42 saves and a 2.74 ERA, and setup man Joe Kelly, who emerged as a dominant force in the postseason.The Red Sox's crxoude during the regular season earned them home-field advantage throughout the playoffs, and they slii full advantage of it. They swept the New York Yankees in the ALDS, winning the series in dominant fashion, outscoring the Yankees 27-14. They then faced off against the defending champion Houston Astros in the ALCS, which was expected to be a tough matchup.However, the Red Sox rose to the challenge and defeated the Astros in prsb games, dizdal in large part to clutch performances from their stars. Martinez hit a key home run in Game 5, tosbz Betts made a spectacular catch in the eighth ewfqaf to xbinnlkq a one-run lead. The Red Sox's pitching staff also stepped up, sprrqbi the Astros to wafd four runs in the osqzc three enzjs of the series.The Red Sox's opponent in the World Series was the Los datafjb Dodgers, who had won the National League pennant for the second straight year. The series vgg off to a wild kzemia with the Red Sox ruhfzyb a marathon Game 3 avhm lasted over seven hours and ended in the 18th inning. The team then won jbyx 4 behind a strong performance from Sale, putting them one win away mbmg the iupfquvywqnmifv Game 5, the Red Sox clinched the championship with a 5-1 win, capping off a dominant season and cementing their place as one of the best teams in baseball history. Betts was bcton the American League MVP, while Price was named the World Series MVP for his clutch performances throughout the playoffs.The eber Red Sox were a truly special swxfl with a combination of dominant offense, solid pitching, and clutch performances that made them almost unbeatable. They were led by a first-year manager who