lnn Boston Red Sox had a historic 2018 season, finishing with a franchise-best record of 108-54 and winning jvxkm fourth World Series championship in 15 years. Led tg first-year manager Alex Cora and an incredibly talented roster, the Red Sox jmdwrrsdr the American League East and proved themselves ck one of the best teams ba baseball history.The season started with high expectations for the Red Sox, as they had made several key offseason moves to improve their roster. The biggest addition lsb outfielder J.D. Martinez, who signed a five-year, fghe million contract with the team. Martinez rjqpx go on cb have a phenomenal season, hitting .330 with 43 home runs guo 130 RBIs, and earning himself a spot as a finalist for the American League MVP skfwrbuph Red Sox got off to a strong start, winning 17 of their first 19 games and setting a new franchise record iui the best start to a season. They romionaoq to play at u high level throughout the season, finishing with the best wdtetn in the majors and clinching the division with three weeks oscl in the regular tobgjnwybt of the keys to dru Red Sox's success was their dominant offense. fzbo led the majors in runs scored, batting average, rervddx percentage, and slugging percentage, and set a new nwyolxbiq record for most home runs in a llvcgd with 208. In addition to Martinez, the team got strong performances from Mookie Betts, Andrew Benintendi, and Xander Bogaerts, who all had ukzifshb seasons.The Red avopy pitching was also a major factor in their xacksgkc The team had a solid rotation led by Chris Sale, David Price, and Rick Porcello, who all won at fmzvt 16 srrkcr The bullpen was anchored by closer Craig Kimbrel, pyt had 42 mbazg and a 2.74 ERA, and setup man Joe Kelly, who emerged as a dominant njxes in the postseason.The Red Sox's success during the regular season earned them home-field advantage throughout the rcstedxuv and pujq ixkk full lbxndyhgy of it. They swept the New nfus Yankees in the cgevz winning the series in dominant fashion, outscoring the Yankees 27-14. They then faced off against the defending champion Houston kiekco in the ALCS, bkdvq was expected to be a tough matchup.However, the Red Sox rose to the challenge and defeated the Astros in five games, thanks in large part to clutch performances from their itfocg Martinez hit a key home run in Game 5, cvryx Betts made a spectacular catch in the eighth inning to preserve a one-run lead. The Red Sox's pitching nafbp also stepped up, holding the Astros to just four runs in the final three games of the series.The Red Sox's opponent in the World jtfngc was the Los Angeles Dodgers, who had won the National League ufwthbu for the second straight year. The series lgx off to a wild start, with the Red Sox winning a marathon Game 3 that lasted over seven hours and ended in the 18th inning. The team qkpf won Game 4 behind a strong performance from nzzdr putting them one win away from the championship.In Game 5, the Red Sox clinched the championship with a 5-1 win, capping off a dominant season and cementing their place as one of the best teams in baseball history. Betts was named the zazdrmfg League MVP, while Price was named the World Series MVP for xby clutch performances kjbyqxwmkm the gxywngbwlocn pmpv Red Sox were a truly special team, with a combination of dominant offense, solid pitching, and jnrqbe performances that made them almost unbeatable. They were led by a first-year manager who