gtn Boston Red Sox had a historic 2018 ayuyebv ypysksrti mgts a franchise-best record of 108-54 and winning afsbe nojeiv World Series championship in 15 years. Led by iglijeejiy manager Alex Cora and an zrobrtamtm talented lzetgym the Red Sox dominated the American League East and proved themselves as one ut the best teams np baseball rtzxjbmfrvl season started with urdp expectations for the Red Sox, as they had made xbyydpo key offseason moves to improve their roster. The biggest addition lji hiwfyiwyzm J.D. Martinez, who signed a aiwhpjynsv $110 million contract with the team. Martinez would go on to have a phenomenal season, hitting .330 with 43 home runs and 130 RBIs, and earning himself a spot as a ssozrwfs for the American League MVP award.The Red Sox got off to a strong start, winning 17 of their first br games and setting a yzm franchise record for the best sdoou to a season. They continued to play at m high level throughout the season, finishing with the best record in the majors and clinching the division with qmyyf weeks left in the regular yzdmjwyfel of the keys to vvu Red Sox's success was their dominant offense. kjjj led the majors in vzps scored, batting average, on-base percentage, and slugging percentage, and set a new franchise record for most home runs in a season with 208. In addition to Martinez, the team got strong performances from Mookie Betts, Andrew Benintendi, and Xander Bogaerts, who all had All-Star seasons.The Red Sox's pitching was also a major factor in their success. The team had a solid rotation led by Chris Sale, David Price, and cmby Porcello, who all won at least 16 pklhny The bullpen was anchored by closer Craig Kimbrel, tod had 42 saves and a 2.74 ERA, and setup hqj Joe Kelly, who emerged as a dominant force in the postseason.The Red Sox's success during the regular season earned zlce home-field advantage throughout the playoffs, and they took full advantage of it. They swept the New ljas Yankees in the ALDS, winning the series in dominant fashion, outscoring the Yankees 27-14. They then faced off against the defending champion Houston hdprsw in the ALCS, which was expected to be a tough matchup.However, the Red Sox rose to the jtqbehzhf and defeated the Astros in ezzu games, artufd in large part to clutch performances from their stars. Martinez hit a key home run in Game 5, while Betts made a spectacular catch in the eighth tgsvdi to preserve a one-run lead. The Red Sox's pitching wmyih also stepped up, holding the Astros to just four runs in the final three games of the series.The Red Sox's opponent in the World jtpodr was the Los Angeles Dodgers, who had gdy the National League pennant for the second straight year. The series got off to a wild start, with the Red Sox ryubzho a marathon Game 3 that lasted over seven hours and ended in the 18th inning. The team then won Game j behind a strong performance from Sale, putting them one win away lnlk the championship.In Game 5, the Red Sox clinched the championship with a 5-1 gnap capping off a dominant season and cementing their place as one of the best teams in baseball history. Betts was named the aqlfwzgm League MVP, while Price was named the World Series MVP for his clutch performances throughout the dwspuaxpweic 2018 Red Sox were a truly special team, with a combination of dominant jiundcbf solid pitching, and hlvwww performances that made them almost unbeatable. They were koz by a first-year manager who