 Fort in Maharashtra, India Durgadi Fort दुर्गाडी किल्ला Durgadi Fort in February 1900's (Right) Patri Pull Bridge oldest bridge in Kalyan General information Type Fort Address Dudh Naka, Kalyan West, Kalyan, Maharashtra 421301 Town or city Kalyan , Maharashtra Country India Coordinates 19°14′43″N 73°07′07″E ﻿ / ﻿ 19.2454°N 73.1186°E ﻿ / 19.2454; 73.1186 Coordinates : 19°14′43″N 73°07′07″E ﻿ / ﻿ 19.2454°N 73.1186°E ﻿ / 19.2454; 73.1186 Construction stopped 1694 AD Durgadi Fort is a fort located in Kalyan , near Mumbai in Maharashtra , India. The fort has a Hindu temple and a masjid at the top, which has religious significance for both Hindus and Muslims . It has witnessed riots in the past and is considered communally sensitive. A team of State Reserve Police Force personnel is deployed for security. [1] History [ edit ] An entrance gate of the Durgadi Fort The fort's construction started during Shah Jahan 's reign and was completed in Aurangzeb 's reign in 1694 AD. Durgadi Fort is built on a hill beside the Kalyan creek. The fort came under Marathas when Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj captured Kalyan and Bhiwandi from Adilshah in 1654. Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj built the fort close to the creek and used it as a dock to build boats and ships. During British Raj , stones from the fort wall were used to construct the Kalyan and Thane piers. [2] Under the rule of Marathas, a new gate about 150 feet to the south of the Ganesh Gate was opened near the mansion of Maratha General Ramji Mahadev Biwalkar . In the citadel of the fort, Marathas built a small temple of Hindu goddess Durga and named the fort Durgadi in honor of the goddess, a name it still bears. The original idol of the goddess Durga was stolen in 1876. [ citation needed ] Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj used the fort as dock and began the work of the first Navy of Hindavi Swarajya and he hired 340 Portuguese artisans to build the naval docks. Later, the fort was repaired by Ramji Mahadev Biwalkar . [3] In 1682, Moghul Sardar Hasan Ali Khan captured the fort, later recaptured by Chhatrapati Sambhaji Maharaj, the second Chhatrapati of the Maratha Empire. However, the Moghuls took it over again in 1689. It later came under Peshwas. In 1728, the Portuguese attacked the fort but were repelled by Shankarji Keshav Phadke, a Peshwa commander. [4] The Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation has built a new gate and made a garden around the fort. [ citation needed ] Durgadi Temple [ edit ] Durgadi Mata Temple on the fort It is believed that Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj himself built Durgadi Temple, dedicated to the Hindu goddess Durga on Durgadi fort. The Shiv Sena chief Bal Thackeray had started the Navaratri celebrations at the temple, which still continues. On the occasion of the Navratri, the temple is visited by devotees from Mumbai , Thane , Raigad and Palghar districts. In 2018, the temple was visited by about 7 lakh devotees during the Navratri festival. [5] 1967 Communal tension [ edit ] In 1967, a communal tension arose in Kalyan over the temple on Durgadi Fort, on which both Hindu and Muslim community had their claims. While local Hindus believed the shrine atop the fort was that of Hindu goddess Durga , the Muslims claimed it to be a mosque and began performing namaaz near the temple. When Shiv Sena supremo Bal Thackeray got to know about the matter, he declared that Shiv Sena would unfurl the saffron flag atop the Durgadi Fort on 8 September 1967. Then the Navratri festival came, and Chief Minister Vasantrao Phulsing Naik announced a ban on the puja at the Durgadi temple. Still, despite the ban, Shiv Sena workers and Theckeray defied the ban and performed the Puja and religious ceremony at the shrine. [6] [7] Photogallery [ edit ] Durgadi Fort entrance Durgadi Fort Durgadi Mata Temple on the fort A mosque on the fort Durgadi Fort Durgadi Fort Durgadi Mata Temple on the fort References [ edit ] ^ Tandel, Faisal (5 February 2016). "Cop finds SRPF napping on duty, steals entire platoon's guns" . Mid Day . ^ "Exploring the forts of Thane" . Hindustan Times . 19 May 2018. ^ "Durgadi Fort" . IndiaAirport.com . ^ "Durgadi Fort" . 30 May 2021. ^ "Preparations for Navratri festival at the historic Durgadi fort of Kalyan" . Mahanagar . 27 September 2019. ^ Johari, Aarefa (13 October 2015). "Back to the '60s: The Shiv Sena's tradition of violence is as old as the party itself" . Scroll.in . ^ Purandare, Vaibhav (2013). Bal Thackeray & The Rise of the Shiv Sena . Roli Books Private Limited. p. 71. ISBN 9788174369918 . v t e Forts in Maharashtra Ahmednagar district Ahmednagar Fort Bahadurgad Bhairavgad Bitangad Harishchandragad Kaladgad Kharda Kunjargad Madan Fort Manjarsumbha fort Pabargad Patta Fort Ratangad Akola district Akola Fort Balapur Narnala Amravati district Amner Fort Gawilghur Aurangabad district Antur Fort Daulatabad Fort Chandrapur district Chandrapur Fort Ballarpur Fort Bhadravati Fort Manikgad Dhule district Bhamer Laling Thalner Kolhapur district Bhudargad Gandharvgad Panhala Pargadh Pavangad Samangad Vishalgad Latur district Udgir Mumbai City district Bombay Castle Dongri Fort Fort George Mahim Fort Mazagon Fort Riwa Fort Sewri Fort Sion Hillock Fort Worli Fort Mumbai Suburban district Castella de Aguada Madh Nagpur district Sitabuldi Nanded district Kandhar Fort Nashik district Aavandhagad Achala Fort Ahivant Fort Alang Anjaneri Ankai Fort Bahulagad Bhaskargad Chandwad Chauler Fort Dermal Dhodap Hargad Harihar fort Hatgad Indrai Kanchangad Kanhergad Kavnai fort Kulang Madangad Malegaon Mangi-Tungi Moragad Mulher Nhavigad Rajdher fort Ramsej Salher Salota Saptashrungi Tankai fort Tringalwadi Waghera Osmanabad district Naldurg Fort Paranda Fort Palghar district Bassein Kaldurg Tandulwadi Pune district Anghaai Fort Bhorgiri Fort Chawand Dhakoba Ghangad Hadsar Fort Induri Fort Jivdhan Kailasgad Kawla Korigad / Koraigad Lohagad Malhargad Manaranjan Mangalgad Morgiri Fort Narayangad Nimgiri Purandar Rajgad Rajmachi Rayri Fort Rohida Sangram Durg Sindola Fort Shaniwar Wada Shivneri Shrivardhan Sinhagad Tikona Torna Tung Vajragad Fort Visapur Raigad district Agarkot Avchitgad Bhimashankar Fort Bhiwgad Birwadi Chambhargad Chandragad Dhak Bahiri Dronagiri Gadad Bahiri Ghangad Ghosalgad Irshalgad Karnala Khaderi Khanderi Kondhawi Fort Korlai Kothaligad Peb fort Kulaba Kurdugad Lingana Maangad Madgad Malanggad Mangalgad (Kangori) Manikgad Mirgad Mrugagad Murud-Janjira Padargad Padmadurg / Kasa Fort Prabalgad Raigad Ratnagad Revdanda Sagargad Samrajgad Sankshi Fort Sarasgad Sarjekot Songad Songiri Fort Sudhagad Surgad Talagad Underi Vikatgad Peb fort Ratnagiri district Aambolgad Anjanwel Bankot Fattedurg Gopalgad Govindgad Gowalkot Jaigad Kanakdurg Mahipatgad Mandangad Prachitgad Prunagad Rasalgad Ratnagiri (Ratnadurg) Sumargad Suvarnadurg Yashwantgad Satara district Ajinkyatara Bhairavgad Bhushangad Chandan-Vandan Dategad Gunavantgad Jangali Jayagad Kalyangad Kamalgad Kenjalgad Mahimangad Pandavgad Prachitgad Pratapgad Sajjangad Santoshgad Vairatgad Vardhangad Varugad Vasantgad Vasota Sindhudurg district Aasavgad Bharatgad Rajkot Fort Sanrjekot Sindhudurg Vijaydurg Thane district Aajobagad Aasawa Arnala Asherigad Ballalgad Balwantgad Belapur Fort Bhairavgad Bhandargad Bhavanigad Bhupatgad Chanderigad Dahanugad Daulatmandal Dharavi Durgadi Fort Gambhirgad Ghodbunder Fort Gorakhgad Gotara Jivdhaanigad Kamandurg Kelwegad Kohojgad Mahuli Malang gad Palasgad Pankot Tahuli Segwa Shirgav Fort Siddhgad Tarapur Fort v t e Forts in India Vijayanagara Chandragiri Gingee Bangalore Udayagiri Vellore Deccan sultanates Ahmednagar Daulatabad Gawilghur Golconda Narnala Panhala Gujarat Sultanate Bhadra Delhi Sultanate Aligarh Bandhavgarh Hathras Qila Mubarak Siri Tughlaqabad Salimgarh Nayak dynasty Chitradurga Bekal Dindigul Gingee Tiruchirapalli Rock Chandragiri Fort Hosdurg Malwa Sultanate Mandsaur Mandavgadh Faruqi dynasty Asirgarh Laling Thalner Rajputs Achalgarh Amber Bhangarh Chittor Jaigarh Jaisalmer Jalore Junagarh Kankwadi Kumbhalgarh Nahargarh Qila Rai Pithora Taragarh Lal Kot Gwalior Kalinjar Hinglajgarh Mehrangarh Narwar Senapati fortress Sabalgarh Bahu Kangra Ranthambore Bhatner fort Maratha Empire Dongri Harishchandragad Kolaba Lohagad Sudhagad Sinhagad Tikona Panhala Pratapgad Vishalgad Rajgad Sindhudurg Vijaydurg Shivneri Raigad Gajendragarh Gingee Shaniwar Wada Jhansi Hinglajgarh Manora Visapur Sadashivgad Mughal Empire Purana Qila Chanderi Agra Allahabad Fatehpur Sikri Red Akola Hari Parbat Ramnagar Jat Bawana Fort Gohad Lohagarh Nahar Singh Mahal Kingdom of Mysore Devanahalli Palakkad Bekal Sankagiri Siddi Murud-Janjira Belapur Underi Travancore Vattakottai Udayagiri East Portuguese Bassein Fort Bombay Castle Mahim Arnala Castella de Aguada Diu Fort Surat Castle Fortim do Mar, Diu Fortim do Mar, Simbor Emmanuel Fort Anjediva Korlai Madh Fort St Thomas, Tangasseri St. Angelo Pallipuram Aguada Fort Tiracol Anjediva Cranganore Ghodbunder Fortaleza de Chaul Ponda Fort Chapora Fort Fortaleza de São Sebastião de Tivim Cabo de Rama Corjuem Fort Mormugão fort Rachol Fort Fort of São Tiago of Banastarim Sikh Empire Jamrud Kamlah Multan Harkishangarh Lahore British Raj Anchuthengu St. George William Bombay Riwa Worli Mazagon Sion Hillock Sewri Mahim Tellicherry St. David Sur Empire Chunar Rohtasgarh Munger Eastern Ganga dynasty Barabati Raibania Ahom dynasty Talatal Ghar Kareng Ghar Rang Ghar Garchuk Lachit Garh Kakatiya dynasty Warangal Bahmani Sultanate Bidar Gulbarga Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Durgadi_Fort&oldid=1145425647 " Categories : Forts in Maharashtra History of Thane district Tourist attractions in Thane district Forts around Mumbai Hidden categories: Use dmy dates from January 2023 Use Indian English from January 2023 All Wikipedia articles written in Indian English Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Infobox mapframe without OSM relation ID on Wikidata Coordinates on Wikidata All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from January 2023 Pages using the Kartogra