 Dental school in Indianapolis, Indiana, U.S. Indiana University School of Dentistry School of Dentistry building in 2022 Motto Always Striving for Simply the Best Type Public , coeducational Established 1879 ; 144 years ago ( 1879 ) Dean Carol Anne Murdoch-Kinch Students 655 students in all disciplines Location Indianapolis , Indiana , United States 39°46′26″N 86°10′48″W ﻿ / ﻿ 39.773962°N 86.180111°W ﻿ / 39.773962; -86.180111 Coordinates : 39°46′26″N 86°10′48″W ﻿ / ﻿ 39.773962°N 86.180111°W ﻿ / 39.773962; -86.180111 Campus Urban: 512 acres (2.07 km²) Website www .dentistry .iu .edu The Indiana University School of Dentistry ( IUSD ) is the dental school of Indiana University . It is located on the Indiana University – Purdue University Indianapolis campus in downtown Indianapolis . It is the only dental school in Indiana . Details [ edit ] The school is located at the center of Indiana, and in the heart of Indianapolis. It is part of Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis (IUPUI), one of eight campuses in the IU system and the premier urban campus of Indiana University . The IUPUI campus is situated just a few blocks from Monument Circle in downtown Indianapolis . IUPUI shares its location on the near west side of the city with the Indiana University Medical Center . Many of the dental school's faculty members have established strong collaborative ties with physicians and other scientists in the medical center facilities, which are just across the street from the school. During the 2010-11 academic year, 693 students pursued seven types of degree and/or certificate programs in dental assisting, dental hygiene , dentistry, and graduate dentistry. In addition, three other IU campuses (in Gary , South Bend , and Fort Wayne ) offer certificates and degrees in allied dental programs. Carol Anne Murdoch-Kinch has been Dean of the school since June 2019. [1] Alumni [ edit ] The IU dental school has more than 11,000 living alumni. They are pursuing careers throughout the United States and in more than 30 other countries. The IU Alumni Association counts dentistry among its most supportive groups. IU grads have been named to prestigious leadership posts in organized dentistry and in dental education throughout the world. Alumna Carol I. Turner (DDS'75) was appointed chief of the US Navy Dental Corps in 2003, becoming the first woman to hold the Navy's top position in dentistry; Ronald Zentz (DDS'85) is senior director of the American Dental Association 's Council on Scientific Affairs; and Stephen Ralls (M'81 Periodontics) is executive director of the American College of Dentists . Cheating episode [ edit ] In May 2007, the School of Dentistry disciplined 46 dental students for cheating. [2] The Indianapolis Star initially reported that nine students were dismissed, 16 were suspended for periods ranging from three to twenty-four months, and 21 received letters of reprimand. [2] However, all of the dismissals were reversed and most of the suspensions decreased after the student appeals were finalized. The incident "involved the unauthorized acquisition, sharing and use of passwords to enter electronically locked image files meant only for examinations", according to a memo written by Dean Lawrence Goldblatt, which the Indianapolis Star obtained. [2] Dr. Goldblatt's memorandum states that the scandal involved the school's second-year class, the dental class of 2009. [2] The memorandum states that the investigation took approximately two months to complete. [2] According to Dr. Goldblatt, all "[s]tudents receiving any of the sanctions... have the right to appeal the decision to the School of Dentistry Faculty Council Executive Committee... within five working days of their official notice of the sanction." [2] Twenty-three students challenged the disciplinary determinations made by the Faculty Council at its May 4, 2007, meeting. During the appeal process, the school reversed every dismissal. Hence, no students were dismissed as a result of the scandal. In the final sanctions imposed against the class: 24 students were suspended from three months to twenty-four months, and an additional 18 students received letters of reprimand. Notable alumni [ edit ] Gary Dilley , American Olympic medalist in swimming, orthodontist Sidney Clayton Goff , member of the Wisconsin State Assembly Steve Green , former NBA player Daniel Laskin , oral and maxillofacial surgeon and educator Robert M. Ricketts , American orthodontist Carol I. Turner , US Navy Dental Corps Elaine C. Wagner ( Rear Admiral , United States Navy ) and 36th Chief, United States Navy Dental Corps See also [ edit ] Medicine portal American Student Dental Association References [ edit ] ^ "People Directory" . Indiana University School of Dentistry . Retrieved March 2, 2020 . {{ cite web }} : CS1 maint: url-status ( link ) ^ a b c d e f IU dental school disciplines 46 on cheating charges Indianapolis Star, May 7, 2007. (available in paid archive) External links [ edit ] Official website v t e Indiana University–Purdue University Indianapolis Indiana University Schools Herron School of Art and Design Kelley School of Business O'Neill School of Public and Environmental Affairs Robert H. McKinney School of Law School of Dentistry School of Education School of Health and Rehabilitation Sciences School of Informatics School of Journalism School of Liberal Arts School of Library and Information Science School of Medicine School of Nursing School of Physical Education and Tourism Management School of Social Work Purdue University Schools School of Science School of Engineering and Technology Other facilities IUPUI Public Art Collection IUPU Columbus Lilly Arbor Project University Library Medical center Richard L. Roudebush VA Medical Center Riley Hospital for Children Sidney & Lois Eskenazi Hospital University Hospital Other institutions National Sports Journalism Center Athletics IUPUI Jaguars Men's basketball Women's basketball IUPUI Gymnasium IU Natatorium IU Michael A. Carroll Track & Soccer Stadium Former facilities Indianapolis Tennis Center v t e Indiana University campuses System campuses Bloomington ( Hoosiers ) Columbus (Crimson Pride) East (Red Wolves) Fort Wayne (Red Foxes) Indianapolis ( Jaguars ) Kokomo (Cougars) Northwest (Redhawks) South Bend (Titans) Southeast (Grenadiers) Medical school campuses Indianapolis Bloomington Evansville Fort Wayne Muncie Northwest–Gary South Bend Terre Haute West Lafayette v t e Dental schools American dental schools Alabama–Birmingham Arizona Augusta (DCG) Boston U (Goldman) California ( UCLA , UCSF ) Case Western Reserve Colorado Columbia Connecticut Creighton Detroit Mercy East Carolina Florida Harvard Howard Illinois–Chicago Indiana Iowa Kentucky Lake Erie Loma Linda Louisville LSU Health–New Orleans Marquette Maryland–Baltimore Meharry Michigan Midwestern Minnesota Mississippi Missouri–Kansas City Nebraska–Medical Center Nevada–Las Vegas New England NYU SUNY ( Buffalo , Stony Brook ) North Carolina Nova Ohio State Oklahoma Oregon Pacific (Dugoni) Penn Pitt Puerto Rico Rochester Rutgers South Carolina Southern California (Ostrow) Southern Illinois–Edwardsville Touro Temple (Kornberg) Tennessee Texas ( UT Health–Houston , UT Health–San Antonio ) Texas A&M Texas Tech–El Paso (Hunt) Tufts Virginia Commonwealth Washington WesternU West Virginia Defunct American dental schools Emory Fairleigh Dickinson Georgetown Harris Loyola Northwestern Ohio College Oral Roberts Pennsylvania College Wash U Canadian dental schools Alberta British Columbia Dalhousie Laval Manitoba McGill Montréal Saskatchewan Toronto Western British dental schools Aberdeen Barts and The London School of Medicine and Dentistry Glasgow Guy's, King's & St Thomas's Liverpool Newcastle Peninsula College of Medicine and Dentistry UCL Eastman Dental Institute Australian and New Zealand dental schools Sydney Melbourne Adelaide Charles Sturt University Griffith University James Cook La Trobe Queensland Western Australia University of Otago South Korean dental schools Chonbuk Chonnam Chosun Dankook Gangneung-Wonju Kyung Hee Kyungpook Pusan Seoul Wonkwang Yonsei Authority control International ISNI VIAF WorldCat National Norway United States Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Indiana_University_School_of_Dentistry&oldid=1131566661 " Categories : Indiana University–Purdue University Indianapolis Educational institutions established in 1879 1879 establishments in Indiana Hidden categories: CS1 maint: url-status Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Coordinates on Wikidata Articles using infobox university Articles with ISNI identifiers Articles with VIAF identifiers Articles with WorldCat identifiers Articles with BIBSYS identifiers Articles with LC