 This is a list of areas and neighborhoods in Bangalore by region. In recent decades, the city has witnessed rapid growth in population and urbanized area. While Central Bangalore is the commercial heart of the city, Eastern and South-Eastern Bangalore areas are major hubs for IT and financial companies. Southern and Western parts of the city are mainly residential areas. The neighborhoods in the Northern and North-Eastern regions are both industrial and residential. Central [ edit ] Malleswaram Indiranagar Sadashivanagar Shivajinagar Vasanthnagar Ulsoor Domlur Jeevanbhima Seshadripuram Austin Town class=notpageimage| Central Bangalore Name Image Summary Cantonment area The Cantonment area in Bangalore was used as a military cantonment during the British Raj in the 19th century. After the Indian independence, the area merged with rest of the city but still retains names for localities and streets used by the British as well as the colonial architecture in many buildings. Some localities which come under this area are Richmond Town , Austin Town , Murphy Town , Fraser Town , and Cox Town . Domlur Formerly part of the Cantonment area, Domlur has become a major hub for IT outsourcing firms and military establishments. The Embassy GolfLinks Business Park and HAL Airport are located in/near Domlur. Indiranagar Indiranagar is a sought-after residential and commercial neighbourhood which is located between the central and eastern parts of the city. The neighbourhood is known for its cosmopolitanism, nightlife, pubs and retail stores. The 100 Feet Road which runs through Indiranagar is one of the major commercial hubs in the city. Rajajinagar Established in 1949 on the birthday of C. Rajagopalachari . Malleswaram Pete area Established by Kempe Gowda I at the time of creation of Bangalore, the Pete area is the centre of trade and commercial activities in central Bangalore. It consists of various localities each of which are known for different markets: Chickpet (textile), Balepet (bangles), Cottonpet (cotton), Sultanpet (paper), etc. The largest flower market in Asia K. R. Market and Avenue Road (earlier known as Doddapete) also come under the Pete area. Sadashivanagar Sadashivanagar is an upscale neighbourhood in the heart of the city. Anugraha , the residence of Karnataka's Chief Minister, is in this neighbourhood. Seshadripuram Seshadripuram was established in 1892 to reduce the congestion in the Pete area. Known for its educational institutions which are now branched across the city, the neighbourhood is primarily a residential locality having an extension called Kumara Park. Shivajinagar Shivajinagar is one of the older areas of the city, which today acts as a major junction for transport to other parts of Bangalore. Russell Market and Bangalore Cantonment railway station are important landmarks in the locality. Ulsoor Ulsoor (or Halasuru) is one of the oldest areas in the city. The neighbourhood is known for the Ulsoor Lake , one of the largest lakes in the city, as well as its proximity to M G Road . Vasanth Nagar Located south of Bangalore Palace , Vasanth Nagar is an upscale neighbourhood in the heart of the city. One of the busiest commercial areas in the city Cunningham Road is located in Vasanth Nagar. Due to its proximity to other commercial areas and luxury hotels, this locality has gained high real estate value. Eastern [ edit ] Marathahalli KR Puram Mahadevapura Bellandur CV Raman Hoodi class=notpageimage| Eastern Bangalore Not shown: Varthur and Whitefield Name Image Summary Bellandur Located along the Outer Ring Road , Bellandur is an IT hub and home to multiple tech parks/SEZs such as RMZ Ecospace. It is also known for the Bellandur Lake . CV Raman Nagar CV Raman Nagar is a neighbourhood to the west of the Outer Ring Road, known for the Bagmane Tech Park located there. Hoodi Hoodi is a locality present in close proximity to Whitefield as well as the Outer Ring Road IT hubs. This proximity has helped Hoodi grow as a residential and commercial centre. Krishnarajapuram Krishnarajapuram is located at the northernmost part of the Outer Ring Road at its junction with the Old Madras Road. Krishnarajapuram assembly constituency is one of the largest in the state of Karnataka . Mahadevapura Another IT hub along the Outer Ring Road, Mahadevapura was formerly a city municipal council. Phoenix Market City , a popular shopping mall, is located in this neighbourhood. Marathahalli Marathahalli is located at the junction of Old Airport Road and the Outer Ring Road. A village until the 1990s, the area has seen rapid urbanisation due to the IT boom in the city. Varthur Varthur is a commercial and residential area located adjacent to Whitefield. Whitefield Formerly a settlement of Anglo Indians, Whitefield is a neighbourhood in the eastern part of the city which is regarded to be one of the two major IT clusters in the city. It houses ITPL , the oldest tech park in the city, as well as shopping malls such as The Forum Value. North-Eastern [ edit ] Banaswadi HBR Ramamurthy Kammanahalli Horamavu Lingarajapuram class=notpageimage| North-Eastern Bangalore Name Image Summary Banaswadi HBR Layout Horamavu Kalyan Nagar Kammanahalli Lingarajapuram Ramamurthy Nagar Northern [ edit ] Yeshwanthpur Hebbal Peenya Jalahalli RT Nagar Mathikere class=notpageimage| Northern Bangalore Name Image Summary Hebbal Jalahalli Mathikere Peenya R. T. Nagar Vidyaranyapura Yelahanka Yeshwanthpur South-Eastern [ edit ] Electronic City Madiwala Koramangala HSR BTM Bommanahalli class=notpageimage| South-Eastern Bangalore Name Image Summary Bommanahalli Primarily a residential area, Bommanahalli has undergone significant commercial growth in recent years due to its proximity to areas such as Electronic City and HSR Layout. Bommasandra BTM Layout BTM Layout is a commercial and residential neighbourhood in Bangalore. It is bound by other on-demand residential areas like Jayanagar, JP Nagar, Madiwala and Bommanahalli. Electronic City Nicknamed "IT capital of India" and "Silicon Valley of India", Electronic City is a large industrial area on the outskirts of the city. With hundreds of IT companies' offices located in the area, including the headquarters of Infosys and Wipro , Electronic City also houses auto manufacturing and financial companies. A flyover on Hosur Road connects Bangalore with Electronic City. HSR Layout HSR Layout is a new residential area in Bangalore located between Hosur Road and Sarjapur Road. Koramangala Koramangala is a large commercial and residential neighbourhood in Bangalore. Located along the Hosur Road, it is a highly sought after real estate area which connects different parts of the city. Madiwala Madiwala is a busy business centre located close to Koramangala. It is famous for the Madiwala Lake . Further information: Vishwapriya Nagar Southern [ edit ] Jayanagar Basavanagudi JP Nagar Padmanabhanagar Banashankari Uttarahalli Kumaraswamy Girinagar class=notpageimage| Southern Bangalore Name Image Summary Banashankari Basavanagudi Girinagar J. P. Nagar Jayanagar Kumaraswamy Layout Padmanabhanagar Uttarahalli Southern suburbs [ edit ] Anjanapura Hulimavu Begur Arekere Kothnur Gottigere class=notpageimage| Southern suburbs Name Image Summary Anjanapura Arekere Begur Gottigere Hulimavu Kothnur Western [ edit ] Vijayanagar Rajajinagar RR Nagar Basaveshwaranagar Nagarbhavi Nayandahalli Mahalakshmi Nandini Kamakshi Kengeri class=notpageimage| Western Bangalore Name Image Summary Basaveshwaranagar Basaveshwaranagar is a residential locality located on the western side of Chord Road. It is named after the 12th century philosopher Basavanna . Kamakshipalya Kamakshipalya is a neighbourhood which lies around the intersection of Magadi Road and Outer Ring Road Kengeri Kengeri is a locality along the Mysore Road and an important transport hub with a railway station , a TTMC and an upcoming terminal station of the Purple Line of Namma Metro . Kengeri Satellite Town is a township developed by the Bangalore Development Authority . Mahalakshmi Layout Mahalakshmi Layout is a large neighbourhood on the western part of Bangalore located in close proximity to Yeshwantpur . The area has a large number of temples including the ISKCON Temple . Nagarbhavi Located to the south of Magadi Road and along the Outer Ring Road, Nagarbhavi is a large residential locality known for the many educational institutions in and around the area such as the Bangalore University and the National Law School of India University . Nandini Layout Nayandahalli Nayandahalli is a transport junction in the western part of Bangalore. The Mysore Road Satellite Bus Station , Mysore Road metro station and NICE Road junction are located in the area and serve as important intracity transport nodes. Rajajinagar Rajarajeshwari Nagar Located in the south-western part of the city along the Mysore Road, Rajarajeshwari Nagar is a suburb named after the Rajarajeshwari Temple in the area. It is primarily a residential neighbourhood, which also has several educational institutions and the Global Village Tech Park . Vijayanagar Named after the Vijayanagara Empire , Vijayanagar is a large residential locality bound by Magadi Road and Mysore Road with the Chord Road running through. It also consists of sublocalities like Chandra Layout and RPC Layout. Peripheral towns [ edit ] Although not technically part of Bangalore metropolitan area, these towns are considered to be part of Bangalore: Attibele , at the junction of NH44 and SH35 on the Karnataka–Tamil Nadu border Anekal , along SH35 Chandapura , along NH44 Thavarekere Chikkabanavara , along SH39 Hesaraghatta , along SH39 Jigani , along SH87 Nelamangala , along NH48 and NH75 Sarjapura , along NH648 and SH35 on the Karnataka–Tamil Nadu border References [ edit ] Places adjacent to List of neighbourhoods in Bangalore Doddaballapura / Devanahalli Hoskote Magadi Bangalore Bidadi Bannerghatta Anekal / Hosur Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=List_of_neighbourhoods_in_Bangalore&oldid=1128732810 " Categories : Neighbourhoods in Bangalore Bangalore-related lists Lists of neighbourhoods in Indian cities Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Use dmy dates from August 2017 Use Indian English from August 2017 All Wikipedia articles written in 