 Blessed Ángela Ginard Martí HCCE Martyr Born ( 1894-04-03 ) 3 April 1894 Lluchmayor , Mallorca , Islas Baleares , Kingdom of Spain Died 26 August 1936 (1936-08-26) (aged 42) Dehesa de la Villa, Madrid , Second Spanish Republic Venerated in Roman Catholic Church Beatified 29 October 2005, Saint Peter's Basilica , Vatican City by Cardinal José Saraiva Martins Feast 26 August Ángela Ginard Martí (3 April 1894 – 26 August 1936), religious name Maria de los Ángeles , was a Spanish religious sister of the Congration of the Hermanas Celadoras del Culto Eucarístico. [1] [2] She suffered martyrdom in 1936, when she was killed during the onslaught of the Spanish Civil War , and was beatified in 2005. [3] [4] Life [ edit ] Ángela Ginard Martí was born on 3 April 1894 in Llucmajor as the third of nine children to Sebastián Ginard García and Margarita Martí Canals. [5] Her father's retirement from the Civil Guard saw the Ginard's move to Palma de Mallorca when she was sixteen where the three eldest sisters (including herself) helped around the house and learnt to embroider and make hats. [1] It was after her First Communion on 14 April 1905 that she had the desire to consecrate herself to Jesus Christ and realized that it would be through the religious life as a nun . It was also after this experience that she made frequent visits to the tabernacle where she would kneel in reflection before Him to further discern her vocation and to strengthen her own faith. [1] [2] Even the example of her two maternal aunts who were nuns had a profound effect on her growing up. But she admired one of those aunts in particular due to the contemplative life she led in her convent . Her sisters often went out with friends to the cinema or other social engagements while she preferred to remain at home to instruct her other siblings in catechism and the lives of the saints. [6] In 1914 she asked her parents for permission to enter the convent her aunt was stationed in but her parents (her father in particular) opposed the idea and advised her to wait and think more on it. [5] Ginard entered the Hermanas Celadoras del Culto Eucarístico in Palma de Mallorca on 26 November 1921 and assumed the religious name Maria de los Ángeles ; she began the postulancy in May 1922 before commencing her novitiate six months later. In 1923 she made her first profession and renewed it in 1926 (then being moved to the house in Madrid ) before making her final profession later in 1929 in Barcelona where she was stationed until 1932 when she returned to Madrid. [2] [5] Ginard did embroidering for the cloths used for the altar and also prepared the bread that would be made into the Eucharistic hosts. [6] When the Spanish Civil War broke out it forced nuns and priests alike to go underground due to the danger against them. The nuns of her convent were forced on 20 July 1936 to disperse while using disguises to flee. [2] During the conflict she hid in an apartment but was arrested during the afternoon on 25 August 1936. The guards who raided the apartment accused a woman of being another nun but Ginard stepped forward to confirm that she was the sole nun living in the apartment. [1] [5] The guards escorted her outside to a waiting car and drove off with her. Ginard was shot dead in a park either in the afternoon or evening on 26 August 1936 and her remains were left at the site of the killing. [6] The next morning the sisters were looking through files at a government building and found pictures of her corpse. The sisters went to the site to reclaim her remains for a proper burial. Her remains were exhumed moved on 20 May 1941 and again in 1984 to the convent where she lived. [1] [6] Beatification [ edit ] The diocesan process was held in Madrid with Cardinal Ángel Suquía Goicoechea inaugurating the investigation on 28 April 1987 and later closing on 23 March 1990; the Congregation for the Causes of Saints validated this process on 18 October 1991 and received the Positio dossier from the postulation in 1993 for additional assessment. John Paul II granted the final approval needed for the cause on 19 April 2004 and confirmed that Ginard would soon be beatified after determining that she had died in odium fidei ("in hatred of the faith"). The beatification was celebrated on 29 October 2005 in Saint Peter's Basilica with Cardinal José Saraiva Martins presiding on the behalf of Pope Benedict XVI . [2] References [ edit ] ^ a b c d e "Blessed María de los Ángeles Ginard Martí" . Saints SQPN. 21 August 2015 . Retrieved 2 December 2017 . ^ a b c d e "Bl. Mary of the Angels Ginard Martí" . Holy See . Retrieved 2 December 2017 . ^ "Bl. Mary of the Angels Ginard Martí (1894-1936) - Biography" . www.vatican.va . Retrieved 2023-03-19 . ^ "Bl. Maria of the Angels: Joyful Martyr of the Spanish Civil War" . Catholic Exchange . 2017-09-13 . Retrieved 2023-03-19 . ^ a b c d "Blessed Mary of the Angels Ginard" . Santi e Beati . Retrieved 2 December 2017 . ^ a b c d Sarah Metts (13 September 2017). "Bl. Maria of the Angels: Joyful Martyr of the Spanish Civil War" . Catholic Exchange . Retrieved 2 December 2017 . External links [ edit ] Hagiography Circle Saints portal Biography portal Catholicism portal Spain portal v t e Saints of the Catholic Church Congregation for the Causes of Saints Stages of canonization : Servant of God → Venerable → Blessed → Saint Virgin Mary Mother of God (Theotokos) Immaculate Conception Perpetual virginity Assumption Marian apparition Titles of Mary Joseph (husband) Apostles Andrew Barnabas Bartholomew James of Alphaeus James the Great John Jude Matthew Matthias Paul Peter Philip Simon Thomas Archangels Gabriel Michael in the Catholic Church Raphael Confessors Anatolius Anthony of Kiev Athanasius the Confessor Chariton the Confessor Dominic Edward the Confessor Francis of Assisi Francis Borgia Homobonus Lazarus Zographos Louis Bertrand Maximus the Confessor Michael of Synnada Paphnutius the Confessor Paul I of Constantinople Peter Claver Salonius Sergius of Radonezh Theophanes the Confessor Disciples Apollos Mary Magdalene Priscilla and Aquila Silvanus Stephen Timothy Titus Seventy disciples Doctors of the Church Gregory the Great Ambrose Augustine of Hippo Jerome John Chrysostom Basil of Caesarea Gregory of Nazianzus Athanasius of Alexandria Cyril of Alexandria Cyril of Jerusalem John of Damascus Bede the Venerable Ephrem the Syrian Thomas Aquinas Bonaventure Anselm of Canterbury Isidore of Seville Peter Chrysologus Leo the Great Peter Damian Bernard of Clairvaux Hilary of Poitiers Alphonsus Liguori Francis de Sales Peter Canisius John of the Cross Robert Bellarmine Albertus Magnus Anthony of Padua Lawrence of Brindisi Teresa of Ávila Catherine of Siena Thérèse of Lisieux John of Ávila Hildegard of Bingen Gregory of Narek Irenaeus Evangelists Matthew Mark Luke John Church Fathers Alexander of Alexandria Alexander of Jerusalem Ambrose of Milan Anatolius Athanasius of Alexandria Augustine of Hippo Caesarius of Arles Caius Cappadocian Fathers Clement of Alexandria Clement of Rome Cyprian of Carthage Cyril of Alexandria Cyril of Jerusalem Damasus I Desert Fathers Desert Mothers Dionysius of Alexandria Dionysius of Corinth Dionysius Ephrem the Syrian Epiphanius of Salamis Fulgentius of Ruspe Gregory the Great Gregory of Nazianzus Gregory of Nyssa Hilary of Poitiers Hippolytus of Rome Ignatius of Antioch Irenaeus of Lyons Isidore of Seville Jerome of Stridonium John Chrysostom John of Damascus Maximus the Confessor Melito of Sardis Quadratus of Athens Papias of Hierapolis Peter Chrysologus Polycarp of Smyrna Theophilus of Antioch Victorinus of Pettau Vincent of Lérins Zephyrinus Martyrs Abda and Abdjesus Charles de Foucauld Canadian Martyrs Carthusian Martyrs Child Martyrs of Tlaxcala Christina of Persia Devasahayam Pillai Dismas the Good Thief Forty Martyrs of England and Wales Four Crowned Martyrs Gerard of Csanád Great Martyr The Holy Innocents Irish Martyrs John Fisher Korean Martyrs Lorenzo Ruiz Martyrs of Lübeck Luigi Versiglia Martyrology Martyrs of Albania Martyrs of Algeria Martyrs of Cajonos Martyrs of Drina Martyrs of China Martyrs of Gorkum Martyrs of Japan Martyrs of La Rioja Martyrs of Laos Martyrs of Natal Martyrs of Otranto Martyrs of Prague Martyrs of Sandomierz Martyrs of the Spanish Civil War Martyrs of Zenta Maximilian Kolbe Óscar Romero Pedro Calungsod Perpetua and Felicity Peter Chanel Pietro Parenzo Philomena Saints of the Cristero War Stephen Teresa Benedicta of the Cross Titus Brandsma Thomas Becket Thomas More Three Martyrs of Chimbote Uganda Martyrs Vietnamese Martyrs Valentine of Rome Victor and Corona Zanitas and Lazarus of Persia Missionaries Augustine of Canterbury Boniface Damien of Molokai Evermode of Ratzeburg Francis Xavier François de Laval Gregory the Illuminator Junípero Serra Nico of Georgia Patrick of Ireland Remigius Patriarchs Adam Abel Abraham Isaac Jacob Joseph Joseph (father of Jesus) David Noah Solomon Matriarchs Popes Adeodatus I Adeodatus II Adrian III Agapetus I Agatho Alexander I Anacletus Anastasius I Anicetus Anterus Benedict II Boniface I Boniface IV Caius Callixtus I Celestine I Celestine V Clement I Cornelius Damasus I Dionysius Eleuterus Eugene I Eusebius Eutychian Evaristus Fabian Felix I Felix III Felix IV Gelasius I Gregory I Gregory II Gregory III Gregory VII Hilarius Hormisdas Hyginus Innocent I John I John XXIII John Paul II Julius I Leo I Leo II Leo III Leo IV Leo IX Linus Lucius I Marcellinus Marcellus I Mark Martin I Miltiades Nicholas I Paschal I Paul I Paul VI Peter Pius I Pius V Pius X Pontian Sergius I Silverius Simplicius Siricius Sixtus I Sixtus II Sixtus III Soter Stephen I Stephen IV Sylvester I Symmachus Telesphorus Urban I Victor I Vitalian Zachary Zephyrinus Zosimus Prophets Agabus Amos Anna Baruch ben Neriah David Elijah Ezekiel Habakkuk Haggai Hosea Isaiah Jeremiah Job Joel John the Baptist Jonah Judas Barsabbas Malachi Melchizedek Micah Moses Nahum Obadiah Samuel Seven Maccabees and their mother Simeon Zechariah (prophet) Zechariah (NT) Zephaniah Virgins Agatha of Sicily Agnes of Rome Angela of the Cross Æthelthryth Bernadette Soubirous Catherine of Bologna Brigid of Kildare Catherine Labouré Catherine of Siena Cecilia Clare of Assisi Eulalia of Mérida Euphemia Faustina Kowalska Faustina and Liberata of Como Genevieve Hiltrude of Liessies Joan of Arc Kateri Tekakwitha Lucy of Syracuse Maria Goretti María de las Maravillas de Jesús Narcisa de Jesús Patricia of Naples Rosalia Rose of Lima Teresa of the Andes Teresa of Calcutta Trasilla and Emiliana Ubaldesca Taccini See also Calendar of saints Congregation for the Causes of Saints Four Holy Marshals Fourteen Holy Helpers Military saints Athleta Christi Miles Christianus Church Militant Seven Champions Virtuous pagan Catholic Church portal Saints portal Authority control International VIAF WorldCat National Germany Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Ángela_Ginard_Martí&oldid=1145514596 " Categories : 1894 births 1936 deaths 20th-century Spanish nuns 20th-century venerated Christians Beatifications by Pope Benedict XVI Deaths by firearm in Spain Executed Spanish women Martyrs of the Spanish Civil War Venerated Catholics Women in the Spanish Civil War Hidden categories: Articles with VIAF identifiers Articles with WorldCat identifiers Articles with G