 This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Saddar, Rawalpindi" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( September 2008 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this template message ) Commercial hub of Rawalpindi in Punjab, Pakistan Saddar Commercial hub of Rawalpindi Country Pakistan Province Punjab (Pakistan) District Rawalpindi Time zone UTC+5 ( PST ) Saddar, Rawalpindi , Pakistan , is the main commercial hub of Rawalpindi Cantonment. [1] [2] [3] [4] [5] It is located between the Mall road and the main railway lines [6] connecting Rawalpindi with down-country. It has some major business and commercial centres, main branches of major Pakistani banks, and residential areas of British colonial era. Saddar is a home to a dense cluster of residential and commercial buildings. Shops as well as shopping malls offer a diverse range of locally manufactured products and imported items. Chota Bazaar is a famous shopping area in northern Saddar. Population [ edit ] It has a population of around 200,000 which includes a majority of Punjabis and a minority of Urdu -speaking Mohajirs , Kashmiris, and Pathans . Major roads [ edit ] Mall Road The Mall Road Haider Road It is the first parallel road to the Mall Road and is well known for banks, photocopier shops and handicraft outlets. Its old name is Lawrence Road and connects Murree Road with Mahfooz Road which leads to the city Railway station. This road is the main thoroughfare for all of the city's transportation, which connect the rest of the city as well as Islamabad . Bank Road Day time view of Bank Road from Shahbaz Plaza It also runs parallel to the Mall road just next to Haider Road and has been named so because the National Bank of Pakistan is situated on it. In fact, branches of almost all banks are situated on this road as is the prominent Gakkhar Plaza shopping center. Various markets exist for branded garments (Bonanza, Leeds, Cambridge, Levi's, Oxford, etc.) plus boutiques and shops for ceremonial dresses. Two big mobile-phone markets are on the same road. Adamjee Road Next to Bank Road is the Adamjee Road which road originates from the Sarwar Road at Punj Sarki (5-road) Fuel Station and crosses Kashmir Road and continues towards the northbound railway. Ministry of Defence offices and Poonch House are important landmarks on this road. Beyond Kashmir Road, there are many shops selling spare auto parts for almost every model running in Pakistan. The oldest Chhota Bazar (Small Market) is also located on this road after the spare parts shops. Kashmir Road This road originates from the Mall Road and hits Murree Road at Mareer Chowk. It is famous for branded garments shops, market for automobile spare parts, meat and poultry market, and tailor shops for ladies' clothes. Its previous name was Dalhousie Road. General Post Office of Pakistan Post is an important landmark on Kashmir road. The biggest mosque of Rawalpindi, Jamia Islamia (Gousia mosque) is also situated on this road. Canning Road This road connects Adamjee Road to the Mall Road. There are shops selling carpets and handmade products on this road. Harding Road This road connects Bank Road to the Mall Road and leads to the Cantonment Hospital, just behind the Gakhar Plaza. Police Station Road Cantt Police Station is on this road just behind the Cantonment hospital. Mahfooz Road This road connects Mall Road to the railway station. A big public school is also on this road. Schools colleges and University [ edit ] Fatima Jinnah Women University The Mall Road Govt. Denny's High School (since 1871) F G College for Women (old C. B. College) F G Girls High School F G Public Secondary School (old Cantt Public High School) Saint John's High School F G Boyes Scc School Adam Jee Road Rawalpindi F G Sir Syed School for Boys Sir Syed Road Pakistan Advanced College of Excellence [7] F G Boys High School, Daryabad, Rawalpindi F G Sir Syed School for Girls Sir Syed Road F G Sir Syed College The Mall Road Hospitals and clinics [ edit ] Cantonment General Hospital Health ways Dr. Shah Medical Dental Health care center Hearts International Hospital Jinnah Memorial Hospital Mazhar Eye Hospital Safia Memorial Clinics Al-Ihsan Hospital Religious centres [ edit ] Shikara of Shri Krishna Mandir Rawalpindi Ghousia Mosques, part of Varan Tours office/Old GTS, on Adam Ji Road Shri Krishna Mandir, Rawalpindi References [ edit ] ^ "Rawalpindi fire death toll rises to 6" . Allvoices.com. 2010-03-08 . Retrieved 2011-12-23 . ^ "Fire in Gakkhar Plaza Rawalpindi | The Pakistani Spectator" . Pkhope.com . Retrieved 2011-12-23 . ^ Abbasi, Obaid (2011-05-21). "Missing person case : IHC summons intelligence chiefs – The Express Tribune" . Tribune.com.pk . Retrieved 2011-12-23 . ^ "Jahangir akhtar hunger strike - Jhangir akthar news - Jhangir akhter hunger strike on pakistani channels - Imran Khan visits Jahangir Akhtar's hunger strike camp to show solidarity | Pakistan News, Political Talk Shows, Live Video News, TV Channels, Current Affairs, Recorded Talk Shows, Sports, Pakistan Youth, Online Movies, Videos & Articles" . Pak-news.com. 2011-09-13 . Retrieved 2011-12-23 . ^ Raja, Mudassir (2011-10-29). "Third day of Diwali: Festivities continue with spark and vigour – The Express Tribune" . Tribune.com.pk . Retrieved 2011-12-23 . ^ "City Maps" . Pindionline.com . Retrieved 2011-12-23 . ^ "Google Maps" . External links [ edit ] allvoices.com Fire in Gakkhar Plaza Missing person case : IHC summons intelligence chiefs Imran Khan visits Jahangir Akhtar’s hunger strike camp to show solidarity Third day of Diwali: Festivities continue with spark and vigour v t e Neighbourhoods of Rawalpindi Administrations: Rawalpindi District Capital Rawalpindi Tehsils Gujar Khan Tehsil Kahuta Tehsil Kallar Syedan Tehsil Kotli Sattian Tehsil Murree Tehsil Rawalpindi Tehsil Taxila Tehsil Cities and towns Rawalpindi Bahria Town Rawalpindi DHA Rawalpindi City‎ Rawalpindi Cantt‎ Chaklala Adiala Gujar Khan Gulshanabad Kahuta Taxila Union councils Ahdi Angoori Ban Beor Bewal Bhadana Chaklala Changa Bangial Charhan Choha Khalsa Darya Gali Daultala Devi Dewal Dhoke khabba Ghari Afghanan Ghel Ghora Gali Ghungrila Gulyana Islampura Jabbar Jand Mehlo Jarmot Kalan Jatli Jhungle Kaliam Awan Kaniat Khalil Karumb Ilyas Kauntrila Khinger Kalan Khinger Khurd Khurram Colony Kot Suleman Kuri Dolal Lalkurti Lohi Bher Mandrah Manghot Mankiala Mankiala Brahmanan Mastala Matore Matwa Miyal Syedan Mohan Pura Mohra Darogha Mohra Noori Mohra Sandhu Mohra Sharif Mohra Topian Murree Mussiari Nambal Narali Noordolal Numbal Pandora Panjar Phagwari Phambray Rajgan Pindbala Paimal Pir Wadhai Potha Sharif Punjgran Kalan Qazian Raman Rawat Royal Artillery Bazaar Saddar Sagri Sahang Samote Satellite Town Sehr Bagla Shakrial Sui Cheemian Sukho Syed Kasran Takal Tarati Thakra Thathi Tret Usman Zada Adra Villages Ausia Badnian Bani Seri Basand Bahgwal Dargahi Barian Bhata Bher Ahir Bhura Hayal Bhurban Burhan Chakri Vakilan Chakri Charra Pani Cheena Chour Harpal Civil Lines Dadhar Mirza Dadhocha Dera Khalsa Dhamyal Town Dhoke Habib Dhamiak Dhamial Dhok Gohar Shah Dhok Gujran Dhok Manna Dhok Nagyal Dhoke Budhal Dhoke Qureshian Dhoong Jajja Jameel Pura Jand Najjar Jherain Jhika Gali Kathrian Khasala Kalan Khasala Khurd Manakray Mandwaal Mohra Gujarn Mohra Heran Mohra Rajgan Mussiari Rupper Kalan Soura Khatril Sumbal Bia Thoha Khalsa Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Saddar,_Rawalpindi&oldid=1145056578 " Categories : Rawalpindi Cantonment Populated places in Rawalpindi Cantonment Hidden categories: Articles needing additional references from September 2008 All articles needing additional references Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Pages using infobox settlement with no coordinates Punjab, Pakistan articles missing geocoordinate data All articles needing coordinates Articles missing coordinates with coordinat