 1971 song by Dolly Parton "Here I Am" Song by Dolly Parton from the album Coat of Many Colors Released October 4, 1971 ( 1971-10-04 ) Recorded April 27, 1971 Studio RCA Studio A , Nashville, Tennessee Genre Country Length 3 : 19 Label RCA Victor Songwriter(s) Dolly Parton Producer(s) Bob Ferguson " Here I Am " is a song written and recorded by American singer-songwriter Dolly Parton . The song was included on her 1971 album Coat of Many Colors . It was recorded on April 27, 1971, at RCA Studio B in Nashville, Tennessee, and produced by Bob Ferguson . Personnel [ edit ] Adapted from the album liner notes [1] and RCA recording session records. [2] David Briggs – piano Jerry Carrigan – drums Pete Drake – steel Bobby Dyson – bass Bob Ferguson – producer Johnny Gimble – fiddle Dave Kirby – guitar George McCormick – guitar Mack Magaha – fiddle The Nashville Edition – background vocals Dolly Parton – lead vocals, writer Hargus Robbins – piano Billy Sanford – guitar Jerry Shook – guitar Buddy Spicher – fiddle Buck Trent – electric banjo 2018 version [ edit ] "Here I Am" Single by Dolly Parton and Sia from the album Dumplin' Released September 14, 2018 Recorded 2018 Studio Greenleaf Studio Blackbird Studio Genre Country Length 4 : 32 Label Dolly RCA Nashville Songwriter(s) Dolly Parton Producer(s) Linda Perry Dolly Parton singles chronology " The Story " (2017) " Here I Am " (2018) " Girl in the Movies " (2018) Sia singles chronology " Flames " (2018) " Here I Am " (2018) " I'm Still Here " (2018) Music video "Here I Am" on YouTube In 2018 Parton re-recorded the song as a duet with Australian singer-songwriter Sia for the soundtrack to the 2018 Netflix film, Dumplin' . It was produced by Linda Perry and released as the first single from the soundtrack on September 14, 2018. Critical reception [ edit ] Upon its release the single received positive reviews from music critics. Writing for Rolling Stone , Althea Legaspi said Parton and Sia's "voices meld together, giving it a hymnal quality, buoyed by gospel-styled choir backing vocals." [3] In a review for NPR Lars Gotrich noted the song's slower tempo compared to the original 1971 recording, calling the single "a gospel-infused statement of purpose." [4] On a list of the 50 best Dolly Parton songs, Rolling Stone magazine ranked "Here I Am" at number 25, calling the Sia collaboration a beautiful amplification of the "desires and assurances of the original." [5] Commercial performance [ edit ] The single sold 10,000 copies during its first week of release. [6] It debuted and peaked at No. 37 on the US Billboard Hot Country Songs chart. Music video [ edit ] The music video for the song was released on November 2, 2018. Neither Parton nor Sia appear in the video which follows a mourner visiting a grave, a homeless man begging for change, a child cowering in fear as her mother is abused, and an elderly woman sick in bed. It focuses on the evolution of the characters introduced at the beginning, and leaves viewers with an uplifting message of hope. [7] Personnel [ edit ] Adapted from the album liner notes. [8] Chris Allgood – mastering assistant David Angell – violin Sean Badum – string recording assistant Avery Bright – viola Billy Bush – mixing David Davidson – violin Luke Edgemon – background vocals Damon Fox – piano, B3 organ, electric guitar Luis Flores – assistant engineer David Goldstein – drums Austin Hoke – cello, string arrangements Emily Lazar – mastering Briana Lee – background vocals John McBride – string recording Billy Mohler – bass Emily Nelson – cello Dolly Parton – lead vocals Linda Perry – producer, engineer Eli Pearl – electric guitar, acoustic guitar Sia – lead vocals Maiya Skykes – background vocals Katelyn Westergard – violin Kristin Weber – violin Kristin Wilkinson – viola Charts [ edit ] Chart (2018) Peak position US Hot Country Songs ( Billboard ) [9] 37 References [ edit ] ^ Parton, Dolly (2007). Coat of Many Colors liner notes . Legacy Recordings. ^ "Praguefrank's Country Discography 2: Dolly Parton, part 1" . Praguefrank's Country Discography 2 . February 6, 2016 . Retrieved July 30, 2019 . ^ Legaspi, Althea (September 14, 2018). "Hear Dolly Parton, Sia's Moving New Rendition of 'Here I Am' " . Rolling Stone . Retrieved July 30, 2019 . ^ Gotrich, Lars (September 14, 2018). "Dolly Parton And Sia Collaborate On 'Here I Am' For 'Dumplin" Soundtrack" . NPR.org . Retrieved July 30, 2019 . ^ Betts, Stephen (April 5, 2023). " "The 50 Best Dolly Parton Songs" . Rolling Stone . Retrieved April 15, 2023 . ^ "The Top 30 Digital Country Singles: September 25, 2018" . RoughStock . September 25, 2018 . Retrieved July 30, 2019 . ^ Hermanson, Wendy (November 7, 2018). "Dolly Parton Teams With Sia for Powerful 'Here I Am' Video" . Taste of Country . Retrieved July 30, 2019 . ^ Parton, Dolly (November 30, 2018). Dumplin' (Original Motion Picture Soundtrack) liner notes . Dolly Records/RCA Nashville. ^ "Dolly Parton Chart History (Hot Country Songs)" . Billboard . Retrieved July 30, 2019. v t e Dolly Parton Albums Singles Songs Filmography Awards and nominations Studio albums 1960s Hello, I'm Dolly Just Because I'm a Woman In the Good Old Days (When Times Were Bad) My Blue Ridge Mountain Boy 1970s The Fairest of Them All The Golden Streets of Glory Joshua Coat of Many Colors Touch Your Woman My Favorite Songwriter, Porter Wagoner My Tennessee Mountain Home Bubbling Over Jolene Love Is Like a Butterfly The Bargain Store Dolly All I Can Do New Harvest...First Gathering Here You Come Again Heartbreaker Great Balls of Fire 1980s Dolly, Dolly, Dolly 9 to 5 and Odd Jobs Heartbreak Express Burlap & Satin The Great Pretender Once Upon a Christmas Real Love Trio Rainbow White Limozeen 1990s Home for Christmas Eagle When She Flies Slow Dancing with the Moon Honky Tonk Angels Something Special Treasures Hungry Again Trio II Precious Memories The Grass Is Blue 2000s Little Sparrow Halos & Horns For God and Country Those Were the Days Backwoods Barbie 2010s Better Day Blue Smoke Pure & Simple I Believe in You 2020s A Holly Dolly Christmas Run, Rose, Run Rock Star Live albums A Real Live Dolly Heartsongs: Live from Home Live and Well Soundtrack albums 9 to 5 The Best Little Whorehouse in Texas Rhinestone Straight Talk Joyful Noise Dumplin' Compilation albums Hits Made Famous by Country Queens As Long as I Love The Best of Dolly Parton Just the Way I Am Mine Best of Dolly Parton Greatest Hits The Winning Hand Collector's Series Think About Love The Best There Is Best of Dolly Parton, Vol. 3 I Will Always Love You and Other Greatest Hits Ultimate Dolly Parton The Very Best of Dolly Parton Playlist: The Very Best of Dolly Parton Diamonds & Rhinestones: The Greatest Hits Collection Singles " Mule Skinner Blues " " Joshua " " Coat of Many Colors " " Touch Your Woman " " My Tennessee Mountain Home " " Jolene " " I Will Always Love You " " Love is Like a Butterfly " The Bargain Store " " The Seeker " " We Used To " " All I Can Do " " Light of a Clear Blue Morning " " Here You Come Again " " Two Doors Down " " It's All Wrong, But It's All Right " " Heartbreaker " " Baby I'm Burnin' " " You're the Only One " " Sweet Summer Lovin' " " Starting Over Again " " Old Flames Can't Hold a Candle to You " " 9 to 5 " " But You Know I Love You " " The House of the Rising Sun " " Single Women " " Heartbreak Express " " Hard Candy Christmas " " Potential New Boyfriend " " Islands in the Stream " " Save the Last Dance for Me " " Tennessee Homesick Blues " " Don't Call It Love " " Real Love " " Think About Love " " Tie Our Love (In a Double Knot) " " We Had It All " " To Know Him Is to Love Him " " Telling Me Lies " " Those Memories of You " " Wildflowers " " The River Unbroken " " Why'd You Come in Here Lookin' Like That " " Yellow Roses " " White Limozeen " " Love Is Strange " " Rockin' Years " " Silver and Gold " " Eagle When She Flies " " Romeo " " Little Sparrow " " When I Get Where I'm Going " " Better Get to Livin' " " Together You and I " " The Story " " Here I Am " " Girl in the Movies " " Faith " " When Life Is Good Again " " Cuddle Up, Cozy Down Christmas " " Words " " Does He Love You (Revisited) " Film and TV Dolly (1976) Dolly (1987) Dolly & Carol in Nashville Hollywood to Dollywood The Book Lady For the Love of Dolly Coat of Many Colors Christmas of Many Colors: Circle of Love Dolly Parton's Heartstrings Christmas on the Square Tours Halos & Horns Tour Hello, I'm Dolly Tour The Vintage Tour An Evening with Dolly Parton Backwoods Barbie Tour Better Day World Tour Blue Smoke World Tour Pure & Simple Tour Theme parks and attractions Dollywood Dollywood's Splash Country Related articles Stella Parton Rachel Dennison Dollywood Foundation Porter Wagoner and Dolly Parton discography Dolly Parton's America Category Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Here_I_Am_(Dolly_Parton_song)&oldid=1149943762 " Categories : Dolly Parton songs Songs written by Dolly Parton 1971 songs Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Articles with hAudio microformats Single chart usages for Billboardcountrysongs Single chart calle