 American DJ, producer and educator This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page . ( Learn how and when to remove these template messages ) This article may be written from a fan's point of view , rather than a neutral point of view . Please clean it up to conform to a higher standard of quality, and to make it neutral in tone. ( August 2020 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this template message ) This biography of a living person needs additional citations for verification . Please help by adding reliable sources . Contentious material about living persons that is unsourced or poorly sourced must be removed immediately , especially if potentially libelous or harmful. Find sources: "King Britt" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( August 2020 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this template message ) ( Learn how and when to remove this template message ) King Britt King Britt by Olinda Del Mar Background information Also known as Fhloston Paradigm, Sylk130, Scuba, The Nova Dream Sequence Born 1968 Origin Philadelphia , Pennsylvania , U.S. Genres Electronic trip hop broken beat Occupation(s) DJ , producer , professor Years active 1988–present Labels Barely Breaking Even Website kingbritt .com Musical artist King Britt (born 1968) is an American educator , DJ and record producer from Philadelphia . [1] Biography [ edit ] Britt is a 1986 graduate of Central High School in Philadelphia , Pennsylvania . In 1987, he started working at Tower Records , as a buyer for the singles/import section. His extensive knowledge of dance music made him an in demand buyer in the company. He went on to make many connections in the music community, bringing in records and new labels from all over the world. King attended Temple University . In 1990, King Britt began his first DJ residency at the Silk City in Philadelphia and the now defunct Revival. These two DJ residencies would help change the course of dance music in Philadelphia and lay the foundation for King's musical future. [ citation needed ] In collaboration with music partner Josh Wink , King also produced his first commercial release "Tribal Confusion" on dance label Strictly Rhythm . Their musical partnership continued until 2001. In 1992, he started touring worldwide for the group Digable Planets for two years with a three-month opening slot with Sade . In 1994, Britt and Josh Wink started the label Ovum Recordings . Their first release was a collaboration between King and wordsmith/singer Ursula Rucker called "Supernatural". The song went on to become a staple tune in the US rave scene and is revered as a classic in many countries. Ovum Recordings is still in operation but King resigned from his position in 2001. In early 1998, under the name Sylk130, King released the neo soul album When the Funk Hits the Fan on Ovum/Columbia Records. [2] This album went to sell over 500,000 copies worldwide and was scheduled to be re-released in 2012 as part of a box set collection for Sylk130. In a favorable review of the 1998 album When the Funk Hits the Fan , Billboard compared his sound to that of Soul II Soul and De La Soul . [3] In 2001, Britt released Sylk130 Re-Member's Only , which features Alison Moyet , Martin Fry from ABC , Kathy Sledge , Grover Washington Jr , De La Soul and others. It was his last album for Ovum Recordings and Columbia Records as he began to pursue doing more production work. Britt released Adventures in Lo Fi on London's BBE label in 2003. Guests on the album included Madlib as Quasimoto , De La Soul , Dice Raw , Ivana Santilli and Butterfly from Digable Planets. He produced King Britt Presents: Sister Gertrude Morgan in 2005. A recreation of self-proclaimed bride of christ, Sister Gertrude 's original Preservation Hall album gets new life. The record was included in the Michael Mann 's 2006 film Miami Vice , on the AdBusters compilation, Live Without Dead Time and the HBO television show True Blood . Still continuing to DJ/produce, King changed his direction and began focusing on techno music and in 2006 released Interpretation under the moniker The Nova Dream Sequence . Released on Munich based label Compost , this record was praised by Derrick May and Carl Craig , including many of the songs in their sets. May also contributed to the liner notes. Britt won the Pew Fellowship in the Arts for composition in 2007. Britt and multimedia artists Rucyl started the project 'Saturn Never Sleeps' in 2009. It is an electronic improvisational group as well as a label. They came together to curate an evening of music for the Institute of Contemporary Art in Philadelphia to coincide with a Sun Ra exhibit, that was touring. They soon took the concept further, while they were residents at The Painted Bride Art Center in Philadelphia. Saturn Never Sleeps went on to become a band, label and is curated monthly in Philadelphia. Intricate Beauty by Britt was released in 2010 on Nervous Recordings . Special guests included Lady Alma, RYAT and Astrid Suryanto, who sings on the club hit "Now". Tim Conley a.k.a. MAST played guitar on the title track "Intricate Beauty". Britt also produced for Canadian rock stars Bedouin Soundclash on the album Light the Horizon . Britt has remixed for musicians Tori Amos , Miles Davis , Saul Williams and Meredith Monk and Wendy & Lisa. In 2014, he produced The Phoenix by Fhloston Paradigm for the Hyperdub label. 2016 brought two album projects, Donna by Cassy and Pendulous Moon by the German singer, Clara Hill. 2017 saw the return of the Fhloston Paradigm project with an album After... It featured guest appearances by Nosaj Thing, Ryat, Jacqueline Constance, Moor Mother, Pia Ercole, Stephanie Yu, Alexa Barchini, Kate Faust, Petra, Puerto Rican Space Program and Tim Motzer. In 2017, he also contributed to Gonjasufi 's album Mandela Effect . Curatorial [ edit ] In 2014, King curated a day at the MoMA PS1 called Moondance: A Night in the Afrofuture . [4] Since then, his curatorial pursuits have included a series of music inspired events for FringeArts in Philadelphia. [5] Discography [ edit ] Albums and production [ edit ] 1998: When the Funk Hits the Fan 2001: Re-Members Only 2002: The Philadelphia Experiment Remixed 2002: Hidden Treasures by Scuba 2002: Black to the Future 2002: Cosmoafrique by ObaFunke 2003: Adventures in Lo-Fi ( BBE Records ) 2005: Late Night with King Britt 2005: King Britt Presents: Sister Gertrude Morgan 2006: Nova Dream Sequence: Interpretations 2007: Cosmic Lounge 2007: This Is King Britt 2009: Deep and Sexy 4 2010: The Intricate Beauty 2011: Yesterday's Machine by Saturn Never Sleeps 2014: The Phoenix by Fhloston Paradigm 2015: Cosmosis #1 by Fhloston Paradigm 2015: Cosmosis #2 by Fhloston Paradigm 2016: Pendulous Moon by Clara Hill 2016: Donna by Cassy 2016: What Happened Was... 2017: After... by Fhloston Paradigm References [ edit ] ^ AllMusic ^ "CD REVIEWS: Eric's Trip, Corrosion Of Conformity, Arling & Cameron and many more" . Chart Attack , August 07, 2001. Kori Golding. ^ Verna, Paul (January 31, 1998). "King Britt Presents Sylk 130—When The Funk Hits The Fan", Billboard 110 (5): 24. ^ "Moondance: A Night in the Afrofuture" . tumblr.com . ^ "Projects" . Kingbritt.com . Retrieved 23 August 2020 . External links [ edit ] King Britt – official site King Britt discography at Discogs Authority control International ISNI VIAF WorldCat National France BnF data Germany Israel United States Artists MusicBrainz Other IdRef Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=King_Britt&oldid=1126102943 " Categories : American dance musicians Remixers Rappers from Philadelphia American hip hop DJs Breakbeat musicians Living people Pew Fellows in the Arts 1968 births 21st-century American rappers Six Degrees Records artists Central High School (Philadelphia) alumni Electronic dance music DJs Barely Breaking Even artists Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Articles with a promotional tone from August 2020 All articles with a promotional tone Wikipedia articles with style issues from August 2020 All articles with style issues BLP articles lacking sources from August 2020 All BLP articles lacking sources Articles with multiple maintenance issues Articles with hCards Pages using infobox musical artist with associated acts All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from August 2020 Articles with ISNI identifiers Articles with VIAF identifiers Articles with WorldCat identifiers Articles with BNF identifiers Articles with BNFdata identifiers Articles with GND identifiers Articles with J9U identifiers Articles with LCCN identifiers Articles with MusicBrainz identifiers Articles with SUD