 Not to be confused with Khari Boli . Coordinates : 28°39′32″N 77°13′16″E ﻿ / ﻿ 28.6588423°N 77.2211152°E ﻿ / 28.6588423; 77.2211152 Neighborhood of Delhi in India Khari Baoli Neighborhood of Delhi Country India State Delhi Languages • Official Hindi Time zone UTC+5:30 ( IST ) A shop selling Dates in Khari Baoli market Californian almonds being sold at Khari Baoli market in Old Delhi. Khari Baoli is a street in Delhi , India known for its wholesale grocery and Asia 's largest wholesale spice market selling a variety of spices, nuts, herbs and food products like rice and tea. [1] Operating since the 17th century, the market is situated near the historic Delhi Red Fort , on the Khari Baoli Road adjacent to Fatehpuri Masjid at the western end of the Chandni Chowk , and over the years has remained a tourist attraction, especially those in the heritage circuit of Old Delhi. [2] [3] [4] History [ edit ] Inscriptions from the 'Khari Baoli' step-well Shop selling tea leaves, at Khari Baoli. Shop selling spices, at Khari Baoli. Carts parked on the Spice Market, Khari Baoli Road. Foundations of the Khari Baoli step-well were laid by Khwaja Abdullah Laazar Qureshi during the reign of Islam Shah (Salim Shah), the son of Sher Shah Suri . The work on this building was completed in the year 1551. Nothing remains of this baoli now, save copies of inscriptions that were preserved in works like Aasar Us Sanadeed (Sir Syed Ahmad Khan) and Miftah Al Tawarikh. [5] [6] Persian text of the inscriptions ( see adjoining image): [7] 1. Top inscription, which was situated close to the eleventh step of the well on the southern wall of the second floor - بِسم الله الرحمن الرحیم در عهد زمان شاه سلطان السلاطین و المظفر اسلام شاه بن شیر شاه سلطان خلد الله ملکه و سلطانه بنا کرده این چاه بتوفیق الله و بروح رسول الله ملک عماد الملک عرف خواجه عبد الله لاذر قریشی بدار الملک حضرت دهلی فی سنه اثنی و خمسین و تسعمأته 2. Bottom inscription, which was situated somewhere above the entrance - بِسم الله الرحمن الرحیم و به یبقنی یا رب بعونت تمام شُد این باوری و چاه در ماهِ رمضان سنه نهصد و پنجاه و هشت هجری بروح محمد مصطفی رسول درگاه حضرة اله در زمان عادل اسلام شاه بن شیر شاه بنا کرده کار گردِ دین از جمله بیشی خواجه عماد المُلک عرف لاذر قریشی بنده کار گردِ باوری اُمید وار عنایت و برحمتک گردد با برسری بالیستک The market came up around the Fatehpuri Masjid , which was built in 1650 by Fatehpuri Begum, one of Mughal Emperor Shah Jahan 's wives. During Shah Jahan's reign it came to be known as Khari Baoli (from Baoli , meaning step well , and Khari or Khara, meaning salty) from a saline water stepwell used for animals and for bathing. It was constructed along with a fortified gateway on its western end popularly known as Lahori Gate, one of the 14 gates of the fortified city of Delhi or Shahjahanabad , named so because a road through it led to the city of Lahore , now in Pakistan. However, today there is no trace of either the well or the gateway here, which now lie buried under the main road of the market. [8] [9] In 1936, Chowdhary Chhotu Ram, a minister in the Punjab Government, issued a law canceling all debts of the villagers. [10] Thus numerous Agrawal traders lost their businesses and migrated to Delhi, settling in colonies like Kamla Nagar , Shakti Nagar and Model Basti, and taking their trade to locations around the walled city of Old Delhi , especially Chandni Chowk , Khari Baoli, Dariba Kalan , Nai Sarak, Naya Bazaar, Sadar Bazaar and Chawri Bazaar . Here, many shops are still known by their serial numbers, e.g., "Chawal Wale 13" or "21 Number Ki Dookan," and are run by the ninth- or the tenth generation of the founders of these establishments dating to the 17th and 18th centuries. [11] One such famous pickle shop which originally started in the 1860s is that of Harnarains, and currently operates under the name Harnarains International . They've been serving the nation for over a century and a half, and have landed on the tables of people like Jawaharlal Nehru and Indira Gandhi . [12] Running since the 17th century, the Khari Baoli market is nestled near the historic area of old Delhi adjacent to the Fatehpuri Masjid. Overview [ edit ] Dry fruits being sold at Khari Baoli market "Gadodia Market", situated on the south side of Khari Baoli was built by wealthy merchants in 1920s has one of the numerous spice stores and is Asia's largest wholesale spice market. [8] Today, Khari Baoli is not only Asia's largest spice market but also an important and busy commercial district, as it caters to vast spice market of North India , including states of Jammu and Kashmir, Rajasthan and even as far as Madhya Pradesh , making it perpetually crowded with traders, and shoppers looking for the cheapest deals and bargains, in the narrow margin [ clarification needed ] spice, dry fruits and other perishable commodity markets. [11] [13] The other end of the Khari Baoli market is on the GB Road (Red light district and wholesale market for engineering goods) and Sadar Bazar (wholesale market for non-branded consumer goods). There is a wholesale market for genuine herbs in Katara Tambaku where some importers and exporters do the wholesale business of herbs. References [ edit ] ^ How a royal flu spawned a culinary gem Mint (newspaper) , 18 September 2009. ^ Hughes, Holly. Frommer's 500 Places for Food & Wine Lovers . Frommer's. p. 11. ISBN 978-0-470-28775-0 . ^ Khari Baoli Delhi: Lonely planet , by Patrick Horton, Richard Plunkett, Hugh Finlay. Lonely Planet , 2002. ISBN 1-86450-297-5 . pp. 102 . ^ Khari Baoli BBC News , 18 July 2009, Images 2-8."Asia's largest wholesale spice market" ^ Aasar Us Sanadeed, author- Sir Syed Ahmad Khan, published by Urdu Academy, Delhi ^ Dilli Ke Aasar e Qadeema, compiled and translated by Janab Khaliq Anjum, published by Urdu Academy, Delhi. ^ Hamarey Zamaney Ki Dilli, compiled and published by Dr. Mohammed Feroz Dehlavi, 2019 ^ a b Khari Baoli [ dead link ] by Danish Shafi. Indian Express , 29 April 2007. ^ Shahjahanabad, a city of Delhi, 1638-1857 , by Shama Mitra Chenoy. Munshiram Manoharlal Publishers, 1998. 127 . ^ Madhulika Shankar Singh. Not all about money: Aggarwals of Delhi . Daily Pioneer . 5 October 2002. ^ a b Double whammy for wholesalers by Manisha Jha. The Hindu , 27 May 2008. ^ "This sharbat is cool" . Deccan Herald . 6 June 2012 . Retrieved 6 February 2020 . ^ Low volumes, high prices TNN, The Times of India , 9 August 2009. External links [ edit ] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Khari Baoli . Reviving the baolis of Delhi The Hindu Khari Baoli in Fatehpuri v t e National Capital Territory of Delhi Topics Architecture Climate Economy Education Government History Sport Tourism Transport History Timeline Indraprastha Hastinapur Tomaras Chauhan Prithviraj Raso Muslim conquests in the Indian subcontinent Delhi Sultanate Mamluk dynasty Khalji dynasty Tughlaq dynasty Sayyid dynasty Lodi dynasty Sher Shah Suri Mughal Empire Old Delhi Maratha Empire British East India Company Bahadur Shah Zafar Indian Rebellion of 1857 British Raj Viceroy of India Indian independence movement Partition of India New Delhi Government & Administration Legislatures Government of India Parliament of India Government of Delhi Delhi Legislative Assembly Delhi Cantonment Board New Delhi Municipal Council Municipal Corporation of Delhi Heads Prime Minister of India President of India Chief Minister of Delhi Lieutenant Governor of Delhi President of Delhi Cantonment Board Chairman of New Delhi Municipal Council Mayors of Municipal Corporations Appellate courts Supreme Court of India Delhi High Court GoI agencies Delhi Police Delhi Development Authority GNCTD agencies Delhi Commission for Women Delhi Jal Board Delhi Vidyut Board Delhi Fire Service Delhi Transport Corporation Delhi Directorate of Education DUSIB DTTDC Autonomous bodies Delhi State Election Commission Places of Interest Government buildings Sansad Bhavan Rashtrapati Bhavan Historic sites Agrasen Ki Baoli Ashokan Edicts Bara Gumbad Barakhamba Central Park (Sunder Nursery) Chausath Khamba Chor Minar Coronation Park Feroz Shah Kotla Gates of Delhi Hauz-i-Shamsi Hauz Khas Complex Hijron Ka Khanqah Humayun's Tomb Jahanpanah Jahaz Mahal Jamali Kamali Mosque and Tomb Jantar Mantar Khirki Mosque Lotus Temple Mehrauli complex Metcalfe House Moth ki Masjid Purana Qila Qila Rai Pithora Qutb Minar complex Red Fort Salimgarh Fort Shish Gumbad Siri Fort Sultan Ghari Teen Murti Bhavan Tomb of Isa Khan Tomb of Safdar Jang Tughlaqabad Fort Memorials & Museums India Gate National Police Memorial National War Memorial Raj Ghat Wall of Truth Indian Air Force Museum National Rail Museum Neighbourhoods Chanakyapuri Civil Lines Hauz Khas Karol Bagh Lajpat Nagar Religious sites Ahinsa Sthal Akshardham Chhatarpur Temple Fatehpuri Mosque Gurudwara Bangla Sahib Gurudwara Sis Ganj Sahib Hanuman Temple ISKCON Temple Jama Masjid Kalkaji Mandir Laxminarayan Temple Lotus Temple Nizamuddin Dargah Sacred Heart Cathedral Shri Atma Vallabh Jain Smarak Sri Digambar Jain Lal Mandir Viceroy Church Yogmaya Temple Streets & Plazas Chandni Chowk Connaught Place Dilli Haat G. B. Road Janpath Khari Baoli Palika Bazaar Ramlila Maidan Rajpath Geography & Divisions Districts Central Delhi East Delhi New Delhi North Delhi North East Delhi North West Delhi Shahdara South Delhi South East Delhi South West Delhi West Delhi National Capital Region Faridabad Ghaziabad Greater Noida Gurgaon Noida Satellite cities Gurgaon Faridabad Jhajjar Bahadurgarh Noida Greater Noida Dadri Ghaziabad Baghpat Transport Air Within Delhi Indira Gandhi International Airport Safdarjung Airport Outside Delhi Hindon Airport Noida International Airport (under construction) Rail Indian Railway Stations Anand Vihar Terminal Delhi Junction Sarai Rohilla Hazrat Nizamuddin New Delhi Urban & Suburban Rail Delhi Metro Delhi Suburban Railway NCR Rapid Transit System (under construction) Road Inter State Bus Terminals Anand Vihar ISBT Kashmere Gate ISBT Sarai Kale Khan ISBT Highways & Expressways Inner Ring Road Outer Ring Road DND Flyway Delhi–Gurgaon Expressway Delhi–Meerut Expressway Delhi–Faridabad Skyway Sports Teams Current Delhi cricket team Delhi football team Delhi Capitals Delhi Waveriders Dabang Delhi Sudeva Delhi FC Delhi FC Defunct Delhi Capitals (basketball) Delhi Defenders Delhi Dynamos FC Delhi Giants Delhi Smashers Delhi United FC Delhi Wizards Garhwal FC Hindustan FC New Delhi Heroes FC Simla Youngs FC Stadiums Arun Jaitley Stadium Chhatrasal Stadium Delhi University Stadium Dr. Ambedkar Stadium Dr. Karni Singh Shooting Range Indira Gandhi Arena Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium Major Dhyan Chand National Stadium Siri Fort Sports Complex SPM Swimming Pool Complex Talkatora Stadium Thyagaraj Sports Complex Yamuna Sports Complex Games 1951 Asian Games 1982 Asian Games 1987 Cricket World Cup 1989 Asian Athletics Championships 1996 Cricket World Cup 2010 Commonwealth Games 2010 Men's Hockey World Cup 2011 Cricket World Cup 2017 FIFA U-17 World Cup Delhi Half Marathon Culture Independence Day Republic Day Cinema Shopping Delhi Pride Qutub Festival Punjabi cuisine Other templates Hindu temples Landmarks Museums Neighbourhoods Power Plants Schools Universities and colleges See also Buildings and Structures Neighbourhoods Tourist attractions Parks Notable people from Delhi List of cities in India by population India portal v t e Neighbourhoods of Delhi Ashok Nagar Ashok Vihar Ashram Chowk Bawana Ber Sarai Chanakyapuri Chandni Chowk Chawri Bazar Chittaranjan Park Civil Lines Connaught Place Daryaganj Dayanand Colony Defence Colony Delhi Cantonment Derawal Nagar Dhaula Kuan Dilshad Garden Dwarka Sub City Gandhi Nagar Geetanjali Enclave Gole Market Golf Links Govindpuri Greater Kailash Green Park Gulmohar Park Hauz Khas Inder Puri Jangpura Janakpuri Kailash Colony Kalkaji Kamla Nagar Kapasheda Karol Bagh Kashmere Gate Kirti Nagar Lajpat Nagar Laxmibai Nagar Laxmi Nagar Lutyens' Delhi Mahipalpur Malviya Nagar Mayapuri Mayur Vihar Meera Bagh Mehrauli Moti Bagh Model Town Munirka Najafgarh Nangloi Naraina Vihar Nehru Place New Friends Colony New Moti Bagh Netaji Nagar New Delhi Nizamuddin East Nizamuddin West Okhla Old Delhi Paharganj Palam Palika Bazaar Pandav Nagar Paschim Vihar Patel Nagar Patparganj Pitam Pura Preet Vihar Punjabi Bagh Raisina Hill Rajouri Garden Rajendra Nagar Rama Krishna Puram Rohini Sadar Bazaar Safdarjung Saket Sarita Vihar Sarojini Nagar Shahdara Shahpur Jat Shalimar Bagh Shastri Park Shivaji Place Shiv Ram Park Shreshtha Vihar South Extension Tilak Nagar Urdu Bazaar Vasant Kunj Vasant Vihar Vasundhara Enclave Vikaspuri West Patel Nagar Yamuna Vihar Landmarks Hindu temples Museums Power stations Topics Universities Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Khari_Baoli&oldid=1145096475 " Categories : Streets in Delhi Retail markets in Delhi Tourist attractions in Delhi Wholesale markets in India Neighbourhoods in Delhi Hidden categories: All articles with dead external links Articles with dead external links from February 2023 Use dmy dates from June 2018 Use Indian English from June 2018 All Wikipedia articles written in Indian English Coordinates on Wikidata Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Pages using infobox settlement with bad settlement type Pages using infobox settlement with no coordinates Wikipedia articles needing clarification from May 2013 Commons category link