 Musical instrument played with air from the nose This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Nose flute" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( July 2009 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this template message ) A melody by Susato, played on a plastic nose whistle. A public domain recording. Problems playing this file? See media help . Nose flute Fijian girl playing nose flute. Woodwind instrument Classification Woodwind Hornbostel–Sachs classification 421.111.12 (The player creates a ribbon-shaped stream of air (in this case with nose) through a tube with fingerholes.) Developed Unknown where flutes developed; Asia and Europe have bone flutes thousands of years old. Nose flutes spread in Polynesian and Pacific Rim countries and Africa. For the instrument played using the nose and mouth cavity, see nose whistle . Fijian nose flute 1838 MHNT The nose flute is a musical instrument often played in Polynesia and the Pacific Rim countries. Other versions are found in Africa. Hawaii [ edit ] In the North Pacific, in the Hawaiian islands the nose flute was a common courting instrument. In Hawaiian, it is variously called hano , "nose flute", [1] by the more specific term ʻohe hano ihu , " bamboo flute [for] nose," or ʻohe hanu ihu , "bamboo [for] nose breath". [2] It is made from a single bamboo section. According to Arts and Crafts of Hawai`i by Te Rangi Hiroa, old flutes in the Bishop Museum collection have a hole at the nose area for the breath, and two or three fingering holes. In the three-finger-hole specimen, one fingering hole is placed near the breath hole. Lengths range from 10–21 inches (250–530 mm). Oral tradition in various families states that numbers of fingering holes ranged from one to four, and location of the holes varied depending on the musical taste of the player. Though primarily a courting instrument played privately and for personal enjoyment, it also could be used in conjunction with chants, song, and hula . Kumu hula (dance masters), were said to be able to either make the flute sound as though it were chanting, or to chant as they played. [3] Kumu hula Leilehua Yuen is one of the few contemporary Hawaiian musicians to perform with the nose flute in this manner. [ citation needed ] Africa [ edit ] This section needs expansion . You can help by adding to it . ( August 2018 ) In the Congo , the nose flute is played by eight ethnic groups . [4] Philippines [ edit ] Main article: Kalaleng In the Philippines , the nose flute ( pitung ilong in Tagalog ), or the kalaleng of the northern Bontok people ( tongali among the Kalinga people ), is played with the extreme forward edge of the right or left nostril . Because the kalaleng is long and has a narrow internal diameter, it is possible to play different harmonics through overblowing—even with the rather weak airflow from one nostril. Thus, this nose flute can play notes in a range of two and a half octaves . Finger holes in the side of the bamboo tube change the operating length, giving various scales . Players plug the other nostril to increase the force of their breath through the flute. [ citation needed ] Taiwan [ edit ] Bamboo nose flute played by Paiwan people In Southern Taiwan , Paiwan people play twin-pipes nose flute. They also play twin-pipes mouth flute. New Zealand [ edit ] Nguru from New Zealand Historically in New Zealand , the Māori carved nguru from wood, the stem of a gourd and whale 's teeth. Nguru were often adorned with very elaborate carvings, befitting what is considered a sacred object. Although Nguru are commonly known as nose flutes, it is only the smaller instruments that can be played with the nose, more commonly Nguru are played with the mouth. The Māori kōauau ponga ihu, a gourd nose flute, was also part of the nose flute tradition; note that a similarly constructed gourd nose flute, ipu ho kio kio was also used in Hawaii. The maker would form a nose hole in the neck (or stem) of the gourd, by cutting off the neck at a fairly small cross section. This small hole is placed under the player's nostril, in order to generate the flute-tone. The "kōauau ponga ihu" functions as an ocarina in its acoustic principles. Several notes of a scale can be obtained by drilling fingerholes into the "bowl" of the gourd. Tonga [ edit ] A variation, the 'Fangufangu' nose flute of the island of Tonga is made with intact node walls at both ends of the bamboo tube, with the nostril holes on the side in front of the nodes (along with side finger holes) and a hole in the middle of the tube, acting as a vent hole, and taking the place of the open distal end. Thus the 'Fangufangu' can be played from either end, and the disposition of the fingerholes differ from node to vent hole so two alternating scales can be played, but only one scale at a time. See also [ edit ] Nose whistle Notes [ edit ] ^ Pukui & Elbert 1986 ^ Nona Beamer lectures [ full citation needed ] ^ Emerson 1965 ^ Grove's Dictionary of Musical Instruments , 1984 edition. [ full citation needed ] Sources [ edit ] Emerson. 1965. [ full citation needed ] . Pukui, Mary Kawena, and Samuel H. Elbert. 1986. [ full citation needed ] Hawaiian Dictionary: Hawaiian-English, English-Hawaiian , revised and enlarged edition. Honolulu : University of Hawaii Press. ISBN 9780824807030 . External links [ edit ] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Nose flutes . Look up nose flute in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. `Ohe Hano Ihu page in Ka`ahele Hawai`i on traditional Hawaiian nose flute Hawaiian nose flute - 'Ohe hano ihu sound clip performed by Ranga Pae Samples at the whistle museum. Māori Nguru in the collection of the Museum of New Zealand Te Papa Tongarewa Noseflute.org - Blog dedicated to modern nose flutes v t e Flutes and whistles Side- blown Bansuri Daegeum Dizi Fife Five-key flute Fue Kagurabue Komabue Minteki Nohkan Ryūteki Shinobue Yokobue Glass flute Irish flute Koudi Sáo Simple system flute Tambin Venu Xindi Concert Piccolo Treble Soprano Concert Flûte d'amour Alto Bass Contra-alto Contrabass Subcontrabass Double contrabass Hyperbass End- blown Anasazi flute Danso Floghera Frilka Fue Hotchiku Shakuhachi Gudi Kaval Kōauau Ney Nose flute Kalaleng Nose whistle Pinkillu Qina Quray Sodina Sopilka Šupelka Svirel Washint Xiao Pan Kuvytsi Larchemi Nai Miskal Paixiao Siku Soinari Wot Fipple Almpfeiferl Atenteben Dentsivka Diple Dvoyanka Flabiol Flageolet Frula Fujara Hydraulophone Khloy Khlui Kuisi Low whistle Native American flute Organ pipe Salamuri Shvi Sjøfløyte Slide whistle Souravli Spilåpipa Stabule Tarka Tabor pipe Tin whistle Txistu Whistle Xirula Zuffolo Recorders Garklein Sopranino Soprano (descant) Alto (treble) Voice flute Tenor Bass Great bass Contrabass Sub-great bass Sub-contrabass Overtone Fujara Kalyuka Koncovka Willow flute Vessel Gemshorn Pifana Hun Molinukai Ocarina Tonette Xun Shepherd's whistle Other Chinese folk flute music List of compositions Tone hole Uakti Vertical flute Authority control MusicBrainz instrument Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Nose_flute&oldid=1141322005 " Categories : Nose flutes Philippine musical instruments Central African Republic musical instruments Hawaiian musical instruments Māori musical instruments Polynesian musical instruments Hidden categories: All articles with incomplete citations Articles with incomplete citations from April 2016 Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Articles needing additional references from July 2009 All articles needing additional references Articles with hAudio microformats All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from April 2016 Articles to be expanded from August 2018 All articles to be expanded Articles using small message boxes Commons category link is on Wikidata Articles with MusicBrainz instrume