 Floor opening between the supporting corbels of a battlement Machicolation Mâchicoulis, Piombatoio A box-machicolation of the Tal-Wejter Tower , in Birkirkara, Malta [1] General information Location Europe , Middle East and North Africa Technical details Material Stone, sometimes wood A machicolation ( French : mâchicoulis ) is a floor opening between the supporting corbels of a battlement , through which stones or other material, such as boiling water, hot sand, quicklime [2] or boiling cooking oil, could be dropped on attackers at the base of a defensive wall . [3] A smaller version found on smaller structures is called a box-machicolation . Terminology [ edit ] Bab Kisan (Kisan Gate), now the façade of the Chapel of Saint Paul in Damascus , with a box-machicolation above the main entrance The structures are thought to have originated as Crusader imitations of mashrabiya . [4] The word derives from the Old French word machecol , mentioned in Medieval Latin as machecollum , probably from Old French machier [5] 'crush', 'wound' and col 'neck'. Machicolate is only recorded in the 18th century in English, but a verb machicollāre is attested in Anglo-Latin . [6] [ page needed ] Both the Spanish and Portuguese words denoting this structure ( matacán and mata-cães , respectively), are similarly composed from "matar canes" meaning roughly "killing dogs", the latter word being a slur referring to infidels . [7] [ page needed ] In Italy and countries which were influenced by the Italian language, such as Malta, it was known as piombatoio . [8] Similar to a machicolation is a smaller version which opens similar to an enclosed balcony, generally from a tower rather than a larger structure. This is called a box-machicolation. [9] Description and use [ edit ] Illustration of machicolations in use. 15th-century machicolations at Craigmillar Castle in Scotland. The design of a machicoulis (sometimes called drop box) originates from the Middle East , where they are usually found on defensive walls. The original Arabian design is rather small, and similar to the domestic wooden balcony known as mashrabiya . [10] In contrast to the domestic balcony, for purposes of defense, the Middle-East version of the machicoulis prominently features a wide opening at the bottom. The opening allows the dropping of hot water and other material intended to cause harm to the enemy below. The otherwise enclosed opening adapted from that of a closed balcony also provides cover from enemy attack while using it. [10] [11] Machicolations were more common in French castles than English, where they were usually restricted to the gateway, as in the 13th-century Conwy Castle . [12] One of the first examples of machicolation that still exists in northern France is at the Château de Farcheville built in 1291 outside Paris. [13] The origins are from Syria and the Crusaders brought their design to Europe. [14] Machicolations were a common feature in many towers in Rhodes, which were built by the Knights Hospitallers . [8] After the Knights were given rule over Malta , machicolations also became a common feature on rural buildings, until the 18th century. Buildings with machicolations include Cavalier Tower , Gauci Tower , the Captain's Tower , Birkirkara Tower , and Tal-Wejter Tower . [9] A hoarding is a similar structure made of wood, usually temporarily constructed in the event of a siege. Advantages of machicolations over wooden hoardings include the greater strength and fire resistance of stone. [15] Post-medieval use [ edit ] Decorative machicolation at Penrhyn Castle in north Wales, which was built between 1822 and 1837. Machicolation was later used for decorative effect with spaces between the corbels but without the openings, and subsequently became a characteristic of many non-military buildings. [16] [a] See also [ edit ] Arrow slit Bartizan Battlement Bretèche Defensive walls Jettying Murder hole Hoarding (castle) Notes [ edit ] ^ For example, Scottish baronial architecture from the 16th century onwards; and Neo-Gothic buildings of the 19th and 20th centuries. References [ edit ] ^ Darke, Diana (2020). Stealing from the Saracens: How Islamic Architecture Shaped Europe . Oxford University Press. p. 265. ISBN 9781787383050 . ^ Medieval castle SIEGES in depth ^ Jaccarini, C. J. (2002). "Il-Muxrabija: Wirt l-Izlam fil-Gzejjer Maltin" (PDF) . L-Imnara (in Maltese). Ghaqda Maltija tal-Folklor. 7 (1): 17–22. ^ Azzopardi, Joe (15 November 2015). "A survey of the Maltese Muxrabijiet" (PDF) . Vigilo . DIN L‐ART ÓELWA (National Trust of Malta). Archived from the original (PDF) on 2015-11-15. ^ Greimas (1987). A.-J; Dictionnaire de l'ancien français . Paris. ISBN 2-03-340-302-5 . ^ Hoad (1986) p. ?. ^ Villena (1988) p. ?. ^ a b Spiteri, Stephen C. (2008). "Naxxar and its Fortifications" (PDF) . Arx - Online Journal of Military Architecture and Fortification (1–4): 13. Archived from the original (PDF) on 21 May 2017. ^ a b Spiteri, Stephen C. (May 2008). "A Medieval tower at Qrendi?" (PDF) . Arx - Online Journal of Military Architecture and Fortification (6): 59. Archived from the original (PDF) on 26 November 2016. ^ a b Jaccarini, C. J. (2002). "Il-Muxrabija, wirt l-Iżlam fil-Gżejjer Maltin" (PDF) . L-Imnara (in Maltese). Rivista tal-Għaqda Maltija tal-Folklor. 7 (1): 19. Archived from the original (PDF) on 18 April 2016. ^ Azzopardi, Joe (April 2012). "A Survey of the Maltese Muxrabijiet" (PDF) . Vigilo . Valletta: Din l-Art Ħelwa (41): 26–33. ISSN 1026-132X . Archived from the original (PDF) on 15 November 2015. ^ Brown (2004), p. 66. ^ Mesqui, Jean (1997). Châteaux forts et fortifications en France (in French). Paris: Flammarion. p. 493 . ISBN 2-08-012271-1 . ^ Cathcart King, David James (1988). The Castle in England and Wales: an Interpretative History . London: Croom Helm. pp. 84–87. ISBN 0-918400-08-2 . ^ Toy, Sidney (2006). History of Fortification from 3000 BC to AD 1700 . Pen and Sword. p. 103. ISBN 9781844153589 . (1st ed. 1955; 2nd ed. 1966) ^ The Oxford Encyclopedia of Medieval Warfare and Military Technology . Vol. 1. Oxford University Press. 2010. p. 344. ISBN 9780195334036 . Bibliography [ edit ] Brown, R. Allen (2004) [1954]. Allen Brown's English Castles . Woodbridge: The Boydell Press. ISBN 1-84383-069-8 . Hoad, T. F. (1986), English Etymology , Oxford University Press Villena, Leonardo (1988). "Sobre las defensas verticales en España: tipología y terminlogía comparadas". In Andrés Bazzana (ed.). Guerre, fortification et habitat dans le monde méditerranéen au Moyen Age: colloque . Casa de Velázquez. ISBN 978-84-86839-02-4 . External links [ edit ] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Machicolations . Look up machicolation in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. Glossary of Medieval Art and Architecture: machicolation. Machicolation v t e Fortifications Ancient Abatis Agger Broch Burgus Castellum Castra Castros Circular rampart City gate Crannog Ditch Defensive wall Dun Faussebraye Gatehouse Gord Hillfort Landwehr Limes Oppidum Palisade Pincer gate Promontory fort Rampart Ringfort (Rath) Refuge castle Schwedenschanze Stockade Sudis Trou de loup Vallum Wagon fort ( Laager ) Vitrified fort Post-classical Advanced work Albarrana tower Alcazaba Alcázar Arrowslit Barbican Bartizan Bastion Battery tower Battlement Bawn Bent entrance Bergfried Bretèche Bridge castle Bridge tower Burh Butter-churn tower Caer Caltrop Castle Chamber gate Chartaque Chashi Chemin de ronde Chemise Cheval de frise Citadel Coercion castle Concentric castle Corner tower Counter-castle Curtain Drawbridge Enceinte Embrasure Flanking tower Fortified buildings ( church , house ) Fujian tulou Ganerbenburg Gate tower Gabion Glacis Guard tower Gulyay-gorod Gusuku Half tower Hoarding Inner bailey Kasbah Keep Kremlin ( Detinets ) Ksar Landesburg L-plan castle Machicolation Merlon Moat Motte-and-bailey Murder hole Neck ditch Outer bailey Outwork Peel tower Portcullis Postern Qalat Reduit Ribat Ricetto Ringwork Roundel Quadrangular castle Shell keep Shield wall Shiro Toll castle Tower castle Tower house Turret Viking ring fortress Wall tower Bailey (or ward) Watchtower Witch tower Yagura Yett Zwinger Modern Early modern Abwurfdach Bastion Blockhouse Breastwork Canal Caponier Casemate Cavalier Counterguard Couvreface Coupure Covertway Crownwork Device Forts Entrenchment Flèche Gorge Hornwork Kotta mara Lunette Orillon Ostrog Palanka Place-of-arms Polygonal fort Presidio (Spanish America) Punji sticks Ravelin Redan Redoubt Retrenchment Sandbag Scarp and Counterscarp Sconce Schanze Sea fort Station Star fort Tenaille 19th century Barbed wire Barbette Border outpost Bunker Coastal artillery Disappearing gun Fire control tower Gun turret Land mine Martello tower Outpost Polygonal fort Sangar Wire obstacles 20th century Admiralty scaffolding Air raid shelter Anti-tank trench Barbed tape Belgian gate Blast shelter Blast wall Border security Buoy Bremer wall Concertina wire Defensive fighting position British "hedgehog" road block Czech hedgehog Dragon's teeth Entry control point (ECP) Electric fence Fallout shelter Fire support base Flak tower Hardened aircraft shelter Hesco bastion Main line of resistance Missile launch facility Pillbox Revetment Sentry gun Spider hole Submarine pen Underground hangar By topography Cave castle Hill castle Hillfort Hillside castle Hilltop castle Island castle Lowland castle Marsh castle Moated castle Promontory fort Ridge castle Rocca Rock castle Spur castle Water castle Floating water castle By role Coastal defence Coercion castle Counter-castle Ganerbenburg Hunting lodge Imperial castle Kaiserpfalz Landesburg Lustschloss Ordensburg Refuge castle Toll castle Urban castle By design Bastion fort Bridge castle Circular rampart Concentric castle L-plan castle Motte-and-bailey castle Quadrangular castle Ringfort Ringwork Tower castle Z-plan castle Lists Bastion forts Castles Cities with defensive walls Defense line Fortifications Forts Walls Related word Château Dungeon Festung National redoubt Palas Schloss Vedette Other topics Civil defense Continuity of government Subterranean warfare Siege Siege engine Tunnel warfare Trench warfare Urban warfare See also : Category Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Machicolation&oldid=1119917758 " Category : Castle architecture Hidden categories: CS1 Maltese-language sources (mt) CS1 French-language sources (fr) Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Articles containing French-language text Wikipedia articles needing page number citations from January 2017 Commons category link 