 This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page . ( Learn how and when to remove these template messages ) This article is based partially or entirely on public domain works of the U.S. government , and thus may require cleanup. You can help by rewriting it from a neutral viewpoint to meet Wikipedia's standards , and expanding the article by adding verifiable content from reliable sources . The talk page may contain relevant discussion. ( October 2015 ) This article may require cleanup to meet Wikipedia's quality standards . The specific problem is: Missing wikilinks. Please help improve this article if you can. ( October 2015 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this template message ) ( Learn how and when to remove this template message ) Jordan is a source, destination, and transit country for adults and children subjected to forced labor and, to a lesser extent, sex trafficking . Women from Southeast Asia and East Africa voluntarily migrate to Jordan for employment among the estimated 50,000 foreign domestic workers in the country; some domestic workers are subjected to forced labor. Many of these workers are unable to return to their home countries due to pending criminal charges against them or due to their inability to pay overstay penalties or plane fare home. Some migrant workers from Egypt —the largest source of foreign labor in Jordan—experience forced labor in the construction, service, and agricultural sectors. Syrians may face forced labor in the agricultural sector, while some refugee children are subjected to the worst forms of child labor . Men and women from throughout Asia migrate to work in factories in Jordan's garment industry where some workers experience forced labor. Jordan's sponsorship system places a significant amount of power in the hands of employers and recruitment agencies, preventing workers from switching employers or receiving adequate access to legal recourse in response to abuse. Some Sri Lankan women engaged in prostitution in the country may be trafficking victims. The Government of Jordan does not fully comply with the minimum standards for the elimination of human trafficking ; however, it is making significant efforts to do so. During 2015, the government substantially increased efforts to prosecute and convict trafficking offenders, and continued to identify and refer to protection services an increased number of trafficking victims. Authorities also increased referrals of trafficking victims to a government-run shelter for gender-based violence (GBV) victims; as of early 2014, this shelter provided specific care for trafficking victims. Furthermore, in March 2015, the government completed construction of a shelter dedicated exclusively to trafficking victims, and was in the process of equipping and staffing the facility at the end of the reporting period; it was also in the process of drafting a national victim referral mechanism at the end of the reporting period. Though the government improved its law enforcement and victim identification and referral efforts, it did not systematically investigate potential cases of trafficking that involved withholding of passports and wages. Trafficking victims—particularly domestic workers who ran away from abusive employers—continued to face arrest and imprisonment. [1] According to Jordanian laws, domestic workers that leave employers and break their work contracts should be subject to deportation and not imprisonment. There is no article within the residency laws that implies imprisonment as punishment for violating residency or labour regulations. [2] [3] U.S. State Department's Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons placed the country in "Tier 2" in 2017. [4] Prosecution [ edit ] The government has significantly increased law enforcement efforts to combat all forms of trafficking, including those involving the most vulnerable populations. The 2009 anti-human trafficking law prohibits all forms of sex and labor trafficking and prescribes penalties of six months’ to 10 years’ imprisonment for child trafficking , trafficking of women and girls, and forced prostitution ; these penalties are sufficiently stringent, but not commensurate with those prescribed for other serious crimes, such as rape. Penalties prescribed for labor trafficking offenses are not sufficiently stringent; offenses against adult male victims that do not involve aggravating circumstances are limited to a minimum of six months’ imprisonment and a fine. Jordan's labor law assigns administrative penalties for labor violations committed against Jordanian or foreign workers, yet these penalties are not sufficiently stringent to deter the crime of human trafficking. The withholding of passports is a crime under Jordan's passport law, which prescribes six months’ to three years’ imprisonment, as well as financial penalties. In 2016, the labour ministry administered misconduct warnings to 27 different domestic worker recruitment agencies and also shut down eight others, after receiving almost 1000 complaints and having to deal with approximately 1,500 runaway cases. That same year, the counter-trafficking unit investigated 30 confirmed human trafficking cases, and also sent 196 victims to shelters, the vast majority of victims being domestic workers. [2] The labour ministry is trying to put measures in place to reduce the amount of illegal domestic workers, of the 100,000 domestic workers in Jordan, around 30,000 are illegal workers according to the Domestic Helpers Recruitment Agencies Association (DHRAA). Many of these workers do not even know that they are considered to be illegal, by leaving their employers due to unsuitable conditions or treatment and not contacting the agency for proper procedures, they infringe upon labour and residency laws. [3] Protection [ edit ] The Jordanian government continues to make progress in its efforts to proactively identify and protect trafficking victims. The government identified 121 female and 40 male victims in 2014; this represents an increase from 90 victims identified in the previous reporting period. The government referred 122 potential victims to a government-run shelter for GBV victims, a local NGO-operated shelter, and an international organization; this was a significant increase from 46 victim referrals in 2013. In March 2015, the government completed construction of a shelter solely dedicated to protecting trafficking victims; however, it was not operational and a designated budget was being developed cooperatively between the government and an international organization at the end of the reporting period. The government began development of a national victim referral mechanism; in the interim, it continued to shelter victims at a GBV facility and to refer victims to services. During the reporting period, the joint anti-trafficking unit agreed to regularly refer trafficking victims to a local NGO for legal aid; in December 2014, the unit referred five victims as a result of the agreement. In early 2014, the government officially expanded the mandate of a shelter for GBV victims to formalize its assistance to trafficking victims; it could house up to 50 female victims of violence and offered medical, psycho-social, educational, and legal assistance. The joint anti-trafficking unit referred 31 cases to the shelter during the reporting period and demonstrated professionalism and sensitivity when handling trafficking cases. Prevention [ edit ] The government continued efforts to prevent trafficking. The anti-trafficking committee met twice during the reporting period and its technical committee met 10 times. In April 2014, the anti-trafficking committee published a report documenting Jordan's anti-trafficking efforts from 2010 to 2014. The government continued to distribute anti-trafficking brochures to foreign migrants at border crossings, police stations, airports, and in the garment sector. The government did not report taking measures to reduce the demand for commercial sex acts or forced labor. The government did not provide specific anti-trafficking training or guidance for its diplomatic personnel. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs reported its finance department directly paid locally hired domestic staff of Jordanian diplomats posted abroad, in accordance with labor laws and wage rates in the host country. The government did not provide specific anti-trafficking training for its peacekeepers before their deployment abroad. References [ edit ] Jordan portal ^ "Jordan" . U.S. Department . Retrieved 2015-10-18 . ^ a b Su, Alice (2017-03-27). "Migrant domestic workers in Jordan run the gauntlet between abuse and jail" . The Guardian . ISSN 0261-3077 . Retrieved 2023-04-06 . ^ a b "Stuck in legal limbo, 'runaway' domestic workers seek a way out" . Jordan Times . 2017-11-26 . Retrieved 2023-04-06 . ^ "Trafficking in Persons Report 2017: Tier Placements" . www.state.gov . Archived from the original on 2017-06-28 . Retrieved 2017-12-01 . v t e Human trafficking in Asia Sovereign states Afghanistan Armenia Azerbaijan Bahrain Bangladesh Bhutan Brunei Cambodia China Cyprus East Timor (Timor-Leste) Egypt Georgia India Indonesia Iran Iraq Israel Japan Jordan Kazakhstan North Korea South Korea Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Laos Lebanon Malaysia Maldives Mongolia Myanmar Nepal Oman Pakistan Philippines Qatar Russia Saudi Arabia Singapore Sri Lanka Syria Tajikistan Thailand Turkey Turkmenistan United Arab Emirates Uzbekistan Vietnam Yemen States with limited recognition Abkhazia Artsakh Northern Cyprus Palestine South Ossetia Taiwan Dependencies and other territories British Indian Ocean Territory Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Hong Kong Macau Category Asia portal Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Human_trafficking_in_Jordan&oldid=1149444591 " Categories : Human trafficking by country Human trafficking in Asia Human rights abuses in Jordan Crime in Jordan by type Hidden categories: Wikipedia neutral point of view disputes from October 2015 All Wikipedia neutral point of view disputes Articles needing cleanup from October 2015 All pages needing cleanup Cleanup tagged articles with a reason field from October 2015 Wikipedia pages needing cleanup from October 2015 Articles with multiple main