 Agency of the State of North Carolina, United States North Carolina Department of Natural and Cultural Resources Agency overview Formed 1971 Jurisdiction State of North Carolina Headquarters 109 East Jones Street MSC 4601 Raleigh, NC 27699-4601 Agency executive D. Reid Wilson , Secretary Website www .ncdcr .gov The North Carolina Department of Natural and Cultural Resources is a cabinet-level department within the state government of North Carolina dedicated to overseeing projects in the arts, culture, and history within the borders of the state. The current Secretary of Natural and Cultural Resources, the cabinet-level officer who oversees the Department, is D. Reid Wilson . Wilson has been in office since January 2021 and was immediately preceded by Susi Hamilton , who served as secretary from 2017 to 2020 [1] [2] History [ edit ] The department was founded as the North Carolina Department of Art, Culture, and History. Its first secretary was Sam Ragan , poet and arts advocate who later became North Carolina Poet Laureate . [3] It was renamed to Department of Cultural Resources in 1973. [4] In 1973, Grace Rohrer succeeded Ragan, becoming the first woman to hold a cabinet-level office in North Carolina. [5] Many of the offices and divisions of the department were founded as separate institutions, such as the State Library of North Carolina , founded in 1812, the North Carolina Museum of History , founded in 1902, and the North Carolina Symphony , founded in 1943. These organizations either remained independent or were gradually combined under the Office of Archives and History until 1971, when the Department of Cultural Resources became the first cabinet-level office of any state in the United States to deal solely with history, the arts, and cultural knowledge. [6] [7] On September 18, 2015, the Department of Cultural Resources was renamed the Department of Natural and Cultural Resources. The name change came with a transfer of several divisions to the department, including North Carolina's state parks , aquariums , zoological park , museum of natural sciences , the Clean Water Trust Fund and the North Carolina Natural Heritage Program. [8] Property and holdings [ edit ] The Department of Natural and Cultural Resources supervises and cares for a large number of historic sites, documents, pieces of art, and other items and places of cultural value for the state. The State Archives, for instance, contain over 100 million historic documents, including North Carolina's copy of the United States Bill of Rights and the original 1663 charter for the colony as granted by Charles II of England . Perhaps the most prominent building supervised by the department is the North Carolina State Capitol , an 1840 Greek Revival building that contains a substantial number of historic artifacts, furniture, and monuments related to the history of North Carolina. The North Carolina General Assembly 's appropriation in 1947 of $1 million for the purchase of artworks and sculpture to be housed in the Museum of Art made it the first state in the nation to use public funds for the purpose of building a state art collection [4] Department structure [ edit ] The department is organized in the following manner (all divisions located in Raleigh unless otherwise noted): [9] [10] Office of Archives and History State Archives of North Carolina (formally known as the Division of Archives and Records) Outer Banks History Center in Manteo Western Regional Archives in Asheville State Historical Records Advisory Board Division of State Historic Sites and Properties : manages 24 historic sites throughout the state and indirectly oversees and coordinates with the 3 historic commissions Division of Historical Resources State Historic Preservation Office Office of State Archaeology Office of Historical Research, coordinating the North Carolina Highway Historical Marker Program and Historical Publications unit ( distributed through Longleaf Services and the University of North Carolina Press ) North Carolina Historical Review , an academic journal on North Carolina history the agency's Western Office service branch in Asheville, North Carolina Division of State History Museums North Carolina Museum of History Graveyard of the Atlantic Museum in Hatteras Museum of the Albemarle in Elizabeth City Museum of the Cape Fear Historical Complex in Fayetteville Mountain Gateway Museum and Heritage Center in Old Fort North Carolina Maritime Museum in Beaufort and Southport Roanoke Island Festival Park Commission in Manteo Battleship North Carolina Commission in Wilmington Tryon Palace Commission in New Bern Office of Arts and Libraries North Carolina Arts Council North Carolina Museum of Art Southeastern Center for Contemporary Art in Winston-Salem North Carolina Symphony State Library of North Carolina Government and Heritage Library Library Development Library for the Blind and Physically Handicapped Division of Land and Water Stewardship North Carolina Clean Water Management Trust Fund North Carolina Natural Heritage Program Division of North Carolina Museum of Natural Sciences N.C. Museum of Natural Sciences in Raleigh N.C. Museum of Natural Sciences in Whiteville Division of North Carolina Zoo Division of State Aquariums Division of State Parks and Recreation Other responsibilities [ edit ] The Department of Natural and Cultural Resources also oversees the North Carolina Award . [11] [12] See also [ edit ] United States portal Government of North Carolina References [ edit ] ^ Cooper names Leaders for Natural and Cultural Resources ^ Morrill, Jim (January 5, 2013). "McCrory's first task: building a new team" . The News and Observer . Archived from the original on January 7, 2013 . Retrieved January 6, 2013 . ^ "Past North Carolina Poets Laureate" . North Carolina Arts Council. Archived from the original on April 13, 2014 . Retrieved April 10, 2014 . ^ a b North Carolina Manual 2009–2010 . Raleigh, North Carolina: North Carolina Secretary of State. 2011. pp. 227–231. ^ "First Woman to Hold State Cabinet Post to Run Office Non-Politically" . The Lexington Dispatch . January 26, 1973 . Retrieved December 13, 2012 . ^ North Carolina Department of Cultural Resources, Office of the Secretary (2011). "2011-2013 Strategic Plan" (PDF) . Retrieved 6 December 2012 . ^ Beckwith, Ryan Teague (December 5, 2008). "What does the Cultural Resources Secretary do?" . Raleigh News & Observer . Retrieved December 13, 2012 . ^ "DENR has a new name - N.C. Dept. of Environmental Quality" . N.C. Dept. of Environmental Quality. September 21, 2015. Archived from the original on 2015-09-25 . Retrieved October 3, 2015 . ^ "Divisions" . North Carolina Department of Cultural Resources . Retrieved December 9, 2012 . ^ "About" . North Carolina Department of Natural and Cultural Resources . Retrieved December 9, 2012 . ^ "Six to Receive the North Carolina Award–State's Highest Honor" . North Carolina Department of Cultural Resources. September 19, 2012 . Retrieved December 13, 2012 . ^ Smith, Erin. "Dr. Charles Hamner To Receive North Carolina Award For Public Service" . The Hamner Institutes for Health Sciences . Retrieved December 13, 2012 . v t e State of North Carolina Raleigh (capital) Topics Index Climate Geography state parks wildlife History Mass media newspapers radio TV North Carolinians Politics government law Symbols Tourist attractions Society Culture music sports Climate change Crime Demographics Economy Education Elections Gambling Regions Western Foothills High Country Piedmont Metrolina (Charlotte) Piedmont Triad Triangle Eastern Sandhills Cape Fear Crystal Coast Inner Banks Outer Banks Largest cities Asheville Cary Chapel Hill Charlotte Concord Durham Fayetteville Gastonia Greensboro Greenville High Point Jacksonville Raleigh Wilmington Winston‑Salem Smaller cities Albemarle Apex Asheboro Burlington Conover Eden Elizabeth City Garner Goldsboro Graham Havelock Henderson Hendersonville Hickory Kannapolis Kings Mountain Kinston Laurinburg Lenoir Lewisville Lexington Lumberton Monroe Morganton New Bern Newton Reidsville Roanoke Rapids Rocky Mount Salisbury Sanford Shelby Statesville Thomasville Wake Forest Wilson Major towns Beaufort Boone Brevard Carrboro Clayton Cornelius Dunn Fuquay-Varina Harrisburg Holly Springs Hope Mills Huntersville Indian Trail Kernersville Knightdale Leland Matthews Midland Mint Hill Mooresville Morehead City Morrisville Mount Pleasant Oxford Shallotte Smithfield Southern Pines Tarboro Waynesville Winterville Counties Alamance Alexander Alleghany Anson Ashe Avery Beaufort Bertie Bladen Brunswick Buncombe Burke Cabarrus Caldwell Camden Carteret Caswell Catawba Chatham Cherokee Chowan Clay Cleveland Columbus Craven Cumberland Currituck Dare Davidson Davie Duplin Durham Edgecombe Forsyth Franklin Gaston Gates Graham Granville Greene Guilford Halifax Harnett Haywood Henderson Hertford Hoke Hyde Iredell Jackson Johnston Jones Lee Lenoir Lincoln Macon Madison Martin McDowell Mecklenburg Mitchell Montgomery Moore Nash New Hanover Northampton Onslow Orange Pamlico Pasquotank Pender Perquimans Person Pitt Polk Randolph Richmond Robeson Rockingham Rowan Rutherford Sampson Scotland Stanly Stokes Surry Swain Transylvania Tyrrell Union Vance Wake Warren Washington Watauga Wayne Wilkes Wilson Yadkin Yancey North Carolina portal v t e North Carolina Cabinet Governor Secretary of Administration Secretary of Commerce Secretary of Environmental Quality Secretary of Health and Human Services Secretary/Chief Information Officer Information Technology Secretary of Military and Veterans Affairs Secretary of Natural and Cultural Resources Secretary of Public Safety Secretary of Revenue Secretary of Transportation Chief of Staff Director of the Office of State Human Resources Budget Director Category Authority control ISNI Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=North_Carolina_Department_of_Natural_and_Cultural_Resources&oldid=1097979516 " Categories : Government of North Carolina State agencies of North Carolina North Carolina Cabinet Government agencies established in 1971 1971 establishments in North Carolina Organizations based in Raleigh, North Carolina Natural resources agencies in the United States Cultural organizations based in California Natural resources in North America Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Articles with IS