 "LaWS" redirects here. Not to be confused with LAWs . This article is about LaWS, the US Navy laser weapon system. For other laser weapon systems, see laser weapon . For the concept of a laser weapon system, see directed-energy weapon . Directed-energy weapon Laser Weapon System The Laser Weapon System (LaWS) aboard USS Ponce . Type Directed-energy weapon Place of origin United States Service history In service 2014–present Used by US Navy Production history Designed 2010–14 Manufacturer Kratos Defense & Security Solutions No. built 1 Laser Weapon System (LaWS) demonstration aboard USS Ponce The AN/SEQ-3 Laser Weapon System or XN-1 LaWS [1] is a laser weapon developed by the United States Navy . The weapon was installed on USS Ponce for field testing in 2014. In December 2014, the United States Navy reported that the LaWS system worked perfectly against low-end asymmetric threats, and that the commander of Ponce was authorized to use the system as a defensive weapon. [2] Purpose [ edit ] The LaWS is a ship-defense system that has so far publicly engaged an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV or drone) and a simulated small-boat attacker. LaWS uses an infrared beam from a solid-state laser array which can be tuned to high output to destroy a target or low output to warn or cripple the sensors of a target. One of its advantages over projectile weapons is the low cost per shot: Each firing of the weapon requires only the minimal cost of generating the energetic pulse; by contrast, ordnance for projectile weapons must be designed, manufactured, handled, transported, and maintained, and takes up storage space. The LaWS is designed to be used against low-end asymmetric threats. Scalable power levels allow it to be used on low power to dazzle a person's eye non-lethally to turn away a threat, and to be used at high power, up to 30 kilowatts, to fry sensors, burn out motors, and detonate explosive materials. By lasing a vital point, LaWS can shoot down a small UAV in as little as two seconds. When facing small boats, the laser can target a craft's motor to disable it, then repeat this against other boats in rapid succession, requiring only a few seconds of firing per boat. Targeting the platform is more effective than targeting individual crewmembers, although the LaWS is accurate enough to target explosive rockets if on board, whose detonations could kill the operators. Against a larger aircraft like a helicopter, LaWS can burn through some vital components to cause it to crash. [3] History [ edit ] In 2010, Kratos Defense & Security Solutions was awarded an $11 million contract to support the Naval Surface Warfare Center (NSWC) in the development of LaWS for the U.S. Navy's Directed Energy and Electric Weapon Systems (DE&EWS) program. [4] The May 24, 2010 NSWC test used a close-in weapon control system to enable the beam director to track an unmanned aerial vehicle target. [5] The LaWS was to be installed on USS Ponce in summer 2014 for a 12-month trial deployment. The Navy spent about $40 million over the past six years on research, development, and testing of the laser weapon. It is directed to targets by the Phalanx CIWS radar. With tests going well, the Navy expected to deploy a laser weapon operationally between 2017 and 2021 with an effective range of 1 mi (1.6 km; 0.87 nmi). The exact level of power the LaWS will use is unknown but estimated between 15–50 kW for engaging small aircraft and high-speed boats. Directed-energy weapons are being pursued for economic reasons, as they can be fired for as little as one dollar per shot, while conventional gun rounds and missiles can cost thousands of dollars each. The Navy has a history of testing energy weapons, including megawatt chemical lasers in the 1980s. Their chemicals were found to be too hazardous for shipboard use, so they turned to less powerful fiber solid-state lasers. Other types can include slab solid state and free electron lasers. [6] The LaWS benefitted from commercial laser developments, with the system basically being six welding lasers "strapped together" that, although they don't become a single beam, all converge on the target at the same time. It generates 33 kW in testing, with follow-on deployable weapons generating 60–100 kW mounted on a Littoral Combat Ship or Arleigh Burke -class destroyer to destroy fast-attack boats, drones, manned aircraft, and anti-ship cruise missiles out to a few miles. [7] In the short term, the LaWS will act as a short-range, self-defense system against drones and boats, while more powerful lasers in the future should have enough power to destroy anti-ship missiles; Navy slab lasers have been tested at 105 kW with increases to 300 kW planned. Laser weapons like the LaWS are meant to complement other missile and gun-based defense systems rather than replace them. While lasers are significantly cheaper and have virtually unlimited magazines, their beams can be disrupted by atmospheric and weather conditions (especially when operating at the ocean's surface) and are restricted to line-of-sight firing to continuously keep the beam on target. More conventional systems will remain in place for larger and longer-range targets that require the use of kinetic defense. [8] The LaWS control station aboard USS Ponce . Deployment [ edit ] The LaWS was deployed on Ponce in late August 2014 to the Persian Gulf with the U.S. 5th Fleet [9] [10] to test the feasibility of a laser weapon in a maritime environment against heat, humidity, dust, and salt water and to see how much power is used. The system has scalable power levels to be able to fire a non-lethal beam to dazzle a suspect vessel, and fire stronger beams to physically destroy a target; range is classified. Although neighboring Iran has threatened to block the Strait of Hormuz using small boat swarms that the LaWS is able to counter, it was not designed or deployed specifically to be used against any one particular country. [11] In September 2014, the LaWS was declared an operational asset, so ship commanders were authorized to use it for self-defense. Humans are not a target of the weapon under stipulations of the Convention on Certain Conventional Weapons , but targets do include UAVs, helicopters, and fast patrol craft. Rules of engagement have been developed for its use, but details have not been released, although the Convention on Certain Conventional Weapons Rules of Engagement (ROE) prohibit using laser weapons against humans. The Navy has released video of the LaWS on deployment disabling a ScanEagle UAV, detonating a rocket propelled grenade , and burning out the engine of a rigid hull inflatable boat. Officials said it is working beyond expectations. Compared to hundreds of thousands or millions of dollars for a missile, one laser shot costs only 59 cents. Composed of commercial laser components and proprietary Navy software, it is powered and cooled by a "skid" through a diesel generator, separate from the ship's electrical systems, giving greater efficiency relative to power provided of 35 percent. Mounted on Ponce' s superstructure above the bridge, its powerful optics are also useful as a surveillance tool that can detect objects at unspecified but "tactically significant ranges"; sailors have equated its surveillance abilities to having the Hubble Space Telescope at sea. Sailors are using it for targeting and training daily, whether to disable or destroy test targets or for potential target identification. The system is operated through a flat screen monitor and a gaming system-like controller integrated into the ship's combat system, so anyone with experience playing common video games can operate the weapon. It has functioned well against adverse weather, and is able to work in high humidity and after a dust storm. However, the system is not expected to work during harsh sandstorms and has not been tested in such conditions because "it didn't make much sense to", but threats would also not be expected to be operational under the same conditions. Deployments on other ships are being examined and although the LaWS was planned to remain deployed for one year, [12] [13] [14] it performed so well that fleet leadership decided to keep it on Ponce as long as it was at sea. [15] Following a review of several ship classes to determine which had available space, power, and cooling, it was decided that after Ponce' s planned decommissioning in 2018, the LaWS will be moved to the new amphibious transport dock ship USS Portland (LPD-27) for indefinite testing. It will utilise the space and power connections reserved for its vertical launching system to house the LaWS power and control modules while the laser itself will be bolted to the deck. Because the installation will be only a trial, LaWS will not be integrated into the ship's warfare system. [16] In January 2018, the Navy announced a $150 million contract with Lockheed Martin for the production of two more LaWS units to be delivered in 2020; one will be fitted to USS Arleigh Burke (DDG-51) while the other will be used for land-based testing. Further contract options could bring its value to $942.8 million. [17] See also [ edit ] Laser weapon Iron Beam Tactical High Energy Laser Peresvet (laser weapon) References [ edit ] ^ The US Navy’s Electric Weaponry - SAdefensejournal.com, 19 February 2016 ^ Lendon, Brad (December 11, 2014). "Navy: New laser weapon works, ready for action" . CNN . Retrieved December 12, 2014 . ^ Star Wars At Sea: Navy’s Laser Gets Real – Breakingdefense.com, December 10, 2014 ^ "Kratos Awarded $11 Million Contract to Support the Navy Directed Energy and Electric Weapon Systems and Total Ship Training System Program Offices" . GlobeNewswire . July 29, 2010 . Retrieved April 9, 2013 . ^ Navy Laser Detects, Tracks Maritime UAVs ^ Navy’s Laser Gun Nears Critical Test Archived February 2, 2014, at archive.today – Nationaldefensemagazine.com, January 29, 2014 ^ Laser Weapons: Lower Expectations, Higher Threats – Breakingdefense.com, May 19, 2014 ^ Lasers Could Become Cost Effective Missile Defense Weapons Archived July 26, 2014, at archive.today – Nationaldefensemagazine.org, August 2014 ^ Luis Martinez (April 9, 2013). "Navy's New Laser Weapon Blasts Bad Guys From Air, Sea" . ABC . Retrieved April 9, 2013 . ^ Jonathan Skillings (April 8, 2013). "U.S. Navy sees shipboard laser weapon coming soon" . CNET . Retrieved April 9, 2013 . ^ U.S. Navy Deploys Its First Laser Weapon in the Persian Gulf – Bloomberg.com, November 14, 2014 ^ U.S. Navy Allowed to Use Persian Gulf Laser for Defense – News.USNI.org, December 10, 2014 ^ Navy Declares Laser Weapons Ready to Protect Ships in Persian Gulf – Military.com, December 10, 2014 ^ Navy's First Laser Gun Shines In Deployed Exercises – Defensenews.com, December 11, 2014 ^ Navy Pursuing Upgraded Railgun, Higher-Power Laser Gun By 2020 - News.USNI.org, 28 July 2015 ^ LPD Portland Will Host ONR Laser Weapon Demonstrator, Serve as RIMPAC 2018 Flagship . Megan Eckstein, USNI News . 10 January 2018. ^ Navy orders laser weapon systems from Lockheed Martin . James Laporta, Space Daily . 29 January 2018. External links [ edit ] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Laser Weapon System (United States Navy) . Laser test on drone on YouTube Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=AN/SEQ-3_Laser_Weapon_System&oldid=1140615664 " Categories : Military lasers Directed-energy weapon of the United States Military equipment introduced in the 2010s Hidden categories: Webarchive template archiveis links Use mdy dates from April 2014 Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Commons category link 