 Indian Institute of Information Technology, Bhagalpur Motto चारित्र्यं मम जीवनम् Type Public Established 2017 Director Prof. Arvind Choubey Undergraduates 300+ Postgraduates 50+ Location Bhagalpur , Bihar , India 25°15′19″N 87°02′34″E ﻿ / ﻿ 25.2553°N 87.0428°E ﻿ / 25.2553; 87.0428 Coordinates : 25°15′19″N 87°02′34″E ﻿ / ﻿ 25.2553°N 87.0428°E ﻿ / 25.2553; 87.0428 Campus Urban Acronym IIIT Bhagalpur Website www .iiitbh .ac .in Indian Institute of Information Technology, Bhagalpur ( IIIT Bhagalpur ) is one of the IIITs set up by Ministry of Education , Government of India in Public Private Partnership (PPP) mode. It is located on the southern bank of the Ganga River in Bhagalpur , the 2nd largest city of Bihar . It was declared as an Institute of National Importance (INI) in September 2020 by Parliament of India. It's new building/campus is under construction and is expected to be completed by May 2023. The institute started functioning from July 2017 in a 50-acres campus of BCE campus. It's mentoring Institute is Indian Institute of Technology Guwahati (IITG) . IIIT Bhagalpur has signed a memorandum of agreement (MoA) with eduCLaas of Singapore to start two PG diploma courses – Digital Business Management (DBM) , Software Engineering and Management (SEM) from this year. [1] [2] History [ edit ] The Government of India decided to establish new IIITs in different states in 2010, [3] and National Screening Committee (NSC), in its second meeting on 14 March 2012, asked the Government of Bihar for a detailed project report (DPR). [4] The proposal for IIIT Bhagalpur was passed by the NSC on 2 September 2016. IIIT Bhagalpur has been set up on a Public–private partnership (PPP) basis. Fifty percent of the stakes are held by Ministry of Education (MoE), Government of India, whereas thirty-five percent is held by the state government; the rest is held by industry partner Beltron. [3] Indian Institute of Technology Guwahati (IITG) has declared as IIIT Bhagalpur's mentor institute. [5] Pinakeswar Mahanta (director, NIT Arunachal Pradesh), the Dean Faculty Affairs at IITG was the director of IIIT Bhagalapur.Then after Dr. Saurabh Basu (retired), the dean of Outreach Education Program at IIT Guwahati was the director and now the permanent director has been selected and his name is Professor Arvind Choubey. [6] [7] Emblem [ edit ] The logo of the institute is designed by Mohijeet Das a designer who graduated from the Department of Design, IIT Guwahati. The logo takes inspiration from artifacts closely related to Bhagalpur such as the Vikaramshila Mahavidyalaya, Bhagalpuri saree to name a few. [8] Campus [ edit ] The permanent campus of IIIT Bhagalpur will be set up on 50 acres (20 ha) of land near Bhagalpur College of Engineering (BCE), [3] and an initial budget of ₹ 128.53 crore (US$16 million) was allocated for the construction of the IIIT. [4] The construction of the permanent campus is going to start from 07 October 2021 and is expected to be completed within 18 months. [6] The IIIT building will be resistant to earthquakes and floods. [4] The state government had initially identified 100 acres (40 ha) of land in Chandi block , Nalanda district , but could not go ahead with the land acquisition due to protests from land owners. [3] Temporary campus [ edit ] Currently, the academic operations are running in a temporary building. Bhagalpur College of Engineering (BCE) had provided the buildings to IIIT Bhagalpur on its campus. Academics [ edit ] IIIT Bhagalpur offers three B.Tech courses in Electronics and Communication Engineering , Computer Science Engineering and Mechatronics with an intake capacity of 150 students in computer science engineering 75 in electronics and communication engineering and 38 in mechatronics. [5] The institute has started M.Tech and Ph.D. programs from August 2021. Student life [ edit ] The Dining and Recreation center which is also called CAC (Common Activity Center) of the institute contains a student mess and facilities for extra co-curricular activities, such as a music room and a gymnasium. Student council [ edit ] Student Council is a main elected student body that supervises all clubs and festivals. It has a budget which the council distributes to various clubs. [9] Students can form new clubs, based on interests, after formal permission of the student council. The Student Senate is an elected student’s body, which focuses on academic many issues like hostels and mess Committee governance are a main part of the units. Student clubs [ edit ] To enhance extra-curricular activities and skills, different clubs have been formed. Student's Council is divided into 3 parts, i.e. Cultural Society, Sports Society, and Technical Society. The Technical Society includes 4 clubs i.e. AI/ML Club, Coding Club, Robotics Club, and Web Development Club. Cultural Society includes 7 clubs: Art and Craft, Dance Club, Dramatics Club, Literature Club, Music and Singing Club, Photography Club, and Quiz Club. Sports include Badminton, Volleyball, Cricket, and Athletics. References [ edit ] ^ "Tech-cradle cheer for state IIIT project stuck for years over land to be set up on Bhagalpur Engineering College campus" . Archived from the original on 2 August 2017. ^ "Director | Indian Institute of Information Technology Bhagalpur" . www.iiitbh.ac.in . Retrieved 18 December 2021 . ^ a b c d "Indian Institute of Information Technology unit soon at Bhagalpur college" . The Times of India . Patna. 7 March 2017 . Retrieved 9 June 2017 . ^ a b c "भागलपुर में खुलेगा बिहार का पहला ट्रिपल आईटी" [Bihar's first IIIT will open in Bhagalpur]. Hindustan (in Hindi). Bhagalpur. 21 September 2016 . Retrieved 9 June 2017 . ^ a b "Indian Institute of Information Technology Bhagalpur" . josaa.nic.in . Joint Seat Allocation Authority 2017 . Retrieved 11 June 2017 . ^ a b Biswas, Avijit (21 June 2017). "IIIT-Bhagalpur to become functional from August; IIT-Guwahati to mentor" . The Hindustan Times . Bhagalpur . Retrieved 23 June 2017 . ^ "Director | Indian Institute of Information Technology Bhagalpur" . www.iiitbh.ac.in . Retrieved 18 December 2021 . ^ "IIIT Bhagalpur Logo Design (Official)" . ^ i, DG IIIT (20 June 2019). "Google Developer Student Club at IIIT-Bhagalpur" . Bhagalpur . Retrieved 23 June 2019 . v t e Indian Institutes of Information Technology (IIITs) MoE –funded Allahabad Gwalior Jabalpur Chennai Kurnool PPP –funded Agartala Bhagalpur Bhopal Dharwad Guwahati Kalyani Kota Kottayam Lucknow Manipur Nagpur Pune Ranchi Raichur Sonepat Sri City Surat Tiruchirappalli Una Vadodara Related subjects AIIMSs IIMs IISc IISERs IITs NITs NIPERs SPAs NIDs NIFTs v t e Engineering Colleges in Bihar Central government Indian Institute of Technology Patna National Institute of Technology, Patna Indian Institute of Information Technology, Bhagalpur Central Institute of Plastics Engineering & Technology, Hajipur State government Loknayak Jai Prakash Institute of Technology Bhagalpur College of Engineering Muzaffarpur Institute of Technology Bakhtiyarpur College of Engineering Darbhanga College of Engineering Gaya College of Engineering Motihari College of Engineering Nalanda College of Engineering Shershah College of Engineering Rashtrakavi Ramdhari Singh Dinkar College of Engineering Supaul College of Engineering Government Engineering College, Vaishali Katihar Engineering College Government Engineering College, Arwal Saharsa College of Engineering BP Mandal College of Engineering Sitamarhi Institute of Technology Government Engineering College, Samastipur Government Engineering College, Banka Government Engineering College, Jamui Government Engineering College, Aurangabad Government Engineering College, Kaimur Government Engineering College, Jehanabad Government Engineering College, Nawada Government Engineering College, Gopalganj Government Engineering College, Buxar Government Engineering College, Sheohar Government Engineering College, West Champaran Government Engineering College, Madhubani Government Engineering College, Sheikhpura Government Engineering College, Lakhisarai Government Engineering College, Kishanganj Government Engineering College, Munger Government Engineering College, Khagaria Shri Phanishwar Nath Renu Engineering College Purnea College of Engineering Government Engineering College, Siwan Government Engineering College, Bhojpur Private Netaji Subhas Institute of Technology, Bihta R.P. Sharma Institute of Technology Vidya Vihar Institute of Technology Maulana Azad College of Engineering and Technology Millia Institute of Technology Patna Sahib College of Engineering & Technology, Vaishali Vidyadaan Institute of Technology and Management Moti Babu Institute of Technology Buddha Institute of Technology, Gaya Mother's Institute of Technology, Bihta Buddha Polytechnic Institute, Gaya Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Indian_Institute_of_Information_Technology,_Bhagalpur&oldid=1139534597 " Categories : Engineering colleges in Bihar Indian Institutes of Information Technology Universities and colleges in Bhagalpur Educational institutions established in 2017 2017 establishments in Bihar Hidden categories: CS1 Hindi-language sources (hi) Use dmy dates from June 2017 Use Indian English from June 2017 All Wikipedia articles written in Indian English Coordinates on Wikidata Articles using info