 Commune in Occitanie, France This article may be expanded with text translated from the corresponding article in French . (December 2008) Click [show] for important translation instructions. View a machine-translated version of the French article. Machine translation, like DeepL or Google Translate , is a useful starting point for translations, but translators must revise errors as necessary and confirm that the translation is accurate, rather than simply copy-pasting machine-translated text into the English Wikipedia. Do not translate text that appears unreliable or low-quality. If possible, verify the text with references provided in the foreign-language article. You must provide copyright attribution in the edit summary accompanying your translation by providing an interlanguage link to the source of your translation. A model attribution edit summary is Content in this edit is translated from the existing French Wikipedia article at [[:fr:Belpech]]; see its history for attribution. You should also add the template {{Translated|fr|Belpech}} to the talk page . For more guidance, see Wikipedia:Translation . Commune in Occitania, France Belpech Commune Facade of St. Saturnin Coat of arms Location of Belpech Belpech Show map of France Belpech Show map of Occitanie Coordinates: 43°12′N 1°45′E ﻿ / ﻿ 43.20°N 1.75°E ﻿ / 43.20; 1.75 Coordinates : 43°12′N 1°45′E ﻿ / ﻿ 43.20°N 1.75°E ﻿ / 43.20; 1.75 Country France Region Occitania Department Aude Arrondissement Carcassonne Canton La Piège au Razès Government • Mayor (2020–2026) Pierre Vidal [1] Area 1 42.46 km 2 (16.39 sq mi) Population (Jan. 2019) [2] 1,317 • Density 31/km 2 (80/sq mi) Time zone UTC+01:00 ( CET ) • Summer ( DST ) UTC+02:00 ( CEST ) INSEE /Postal code 11033 /11420 Elevation 228–371 m (748–1,217 ft) (avg. 243 m or 797 ft) 1 French Land Register data, which excludes lakes, ponds, glaciers > 1 km 2 (0.386 sq mi or 247 acres) and river estuaries. Belpech ( French pronunciation: [bɛlpɛʃ] ( listen ) ; Occitan : Bèlpuèg ) is a commune in the Aude department in southern France . Geography [ edit ] Belpech is a town of 1300 inhabitants built at 245 meters above sea level; old medieval Bastide located at the foot of a sunny slope of Lauragais, just upstream from the confluence of the Vixiège (which runs through the village) and the Hers, which is a tributary. History [ edit ] The origin of Belpech is very old, the site was inhabited from the Gallo-Roman times. The name of the village at this time (Bellopodio-Beaupuy) derives from that of a Gaulish god: Belenos and "pech" means the hill which dominates. It was once a very important city that had to suffer religious wars and large fires (97 houses were burned down in 1791). It was dominated by a castle called Castelas, built in the eleventh century on the hill "pech" overlooking the present village, which you can still see the remains of the keep. The Monastery of Our Lady of Garnac (Garnicia), founded in the fourteenth century was located south of the castle, a few remnants of these walls and the church are still visible. The Lordship of Belpech belonged: in the eleventh century, Bertrand de Beaupuy; the thirteenth century, in Fort-de Beaupuy Raimond, in the fourteenth century to Galcerandum of Bellopodio; in the early fifteenth century, Sicard Bellopodio; in 1470 to Sir Etienne de Rouaix. In 1226, Louis XIII stopped at Belpech. In 1630, the plague broke out in the village, the inhabitants took refuge in the fields and built shacks in which they retired. The plague broke out again in August 1654 and lasted until the following November. In 1835, was known for its sheets factories. Sights [ edit ] The "Castella": Medieval Castle • The Gallic site of Garnac. • The Gallo-Roman Bridge. • The original Castle (10th) in ruins. • Hall-style metal Baltard. • Half-timbered houses with a dual cantilever (14th). • The house of Cardinal Curtis (14th) with its Gothic windows in two bays, located Tournefeuille street. • The home of the Marquis de Mauleon Seigneurale-Barousse (17th). • The church of Saint-Saturnin which dates from the early fourteenth century, replaced an older Romanesque building. There are, inside, a nice set of disc-shaped steles. The jewel is the famous Romanesque portal, the most complete and most beautiful of Lauragais. It is a "portal Toulouse" without eardrum but with multiple arches, corresponding to projections of splays and columns housed in the projections • The Ruins of the Chapel of the Rosary (15th) located above the village near the castle. • The Church of St. John Baptist de Tresmèzes. • Several iron crosses (15ème/16ème/18ème), many stone crosses (roadsides, and in the cemetery's church), also near the hamlet of Tresmèzes a cross from 1652. Population [ edit ] Historical population Year Pop. ±% 1962 1,210 — 1968 1,224 +1.2% 1975 1,089 −11.0% 1982 1,068 −1.9% 1990 1,165 +9.1% 1999 1,152 −1.1% 2008 1,294 +12.3% See also [ edit ] Communes of the Aude department References [ edit ] ^ "Répertoire national des élus: les maires" (in French). data.gouv.fr, Plateforme ouverte des données publiques françaises. 13 September 2022. ^ "Populations légales 2019" . The National Institute of Statistics and Economic Studies . 29 December 2021. Wikimedia Commons has media related to Belpech . v t e Communes of the Aude department Aigues-Vives Airoux Ajac Alaigne Alairac Albas Albières Alet-les-Bains Alzonne Antugnac Aragon Argeliers Argens-Minervois Armissan Arques Arquettes-en-Val Artigues Arzens Aunat Auriac Axat Azille Badens Bages Bagnoles Baraigne Barbaira Belcaire Belcastel-et-Buc Belflou Belfort-sur-Rebenty Bellegarde-du-Razès Belpech Belvèze-du-Razès Belvianes-et-Cavirac Belvis Berriac Bessède-de-Sault La Bezole Bizanet Bize-Minervois Blomac Bouilhonnac Bouisse Bouriège Bourigeole Le Bousquet Boutenac Bram Brézilhac Brousses-et-Villaret Brugairolles Les Brunels Bugarach Cabrespine Cahuzac Cailhau Cailhavel Cailla Cambieure Campagna-de-Sault Campagne-sur-Aude Camplong-d'Aude Camps-sur-l'Agly Camurac Canet Capendu Carcassonne pref Carlipa Cascastel-des-Corbières La Cassaigne Cassaignes Les Cassés Castans Castelnaudary Castelnau-d'Aude Castelreng Caudebronde Caunes-Minervois Caunettes-en-Val Caunette-sur-Lauquet Caux-et-Sauzens Cavanac Caves Cazalrenoux Cazilhac Cenne-Monestiés Cépie Chalabre Citou Le Clat Clermont-sur-Lauquet Comigne Comus Conilhac-Corbières Conques-sur-Orbiel Corbières Coudons Couffoulens Couiza Counozouls Cournanel Coursan Courtauly La Courtète Coustaussa Coustouge Cruscades Cubières-sur-Cinoble Cucugnan Cumiès Cuxac-Cabardès Cuxac-d'Aude Davejean Dernacueillette La Digne-d'Amont La Digne-d'Aval Donazac Douzens Duilhac-sous-Peyrepertuse Durban-Corbières Embres-et-Castelmaure Escales Escouloubre Escueillens-et-Saint-Just-de-Bélengard Espéraza Espezel Fabrezan Fajac-en-Val Fajac-la-Relenque La Fajolle Fanjeaux Félines-Termenès Fendeille Fenouillet-du-Razès Ferrals-les-Corbières Ferran Festes-et-Saint-André Feuilla Fitou Fleury Floure Fontanès-de-Sault Fontcouverte Fonters-du-Razès Fontiers-Cabardès Fontiès-d'Aude Fontjoncouse La Force Fournes-Cabardès Fourtou Fraisse-Cabardès Fraissé-des-Corbières Gaja-et-Villedieu Gaja-la-Selve Galinagues Gardie Generville Gincla Ginestas Ginoles Gourvieille Gramazie Granès Greffeil Gruissan Homps Hounoux Les Ilhes Issel Jonquières Joucou Labastide-d'Anjou Labastide-en-Val Labastide-Esparbairenque Labécède-Lauragais Lacombe Ladern-sur-Lauquet Lafage Lagrasse Lairière Lanet Laprade Laroque-de-Fa Lasbordes Lasserre-de-Prouille Lastours Laurabuc Laurac Lauraguel Laure-Minervois Lavalette Lespinassière Leuc Leucate Lézignan-Corbières Lignairolles Limousis Limoux subpr Loupia La Louvière-Lauragais Luc-sur-Aude Luc-sur-Orbieu Magrie Mailhac Maisons Malras Malves-en-Minervois Malviès Marcorignan Marquein Marsa Marseillette Les Martys Mas-Cabardès Mas-des-Cours Massac Mas-Saintes-Puelles Mayreville Mayronnes Mazerolles-du-Razès Mazuby Mérial Mézerville Miraval-Cabardes Mirepeisset Mireval-Lauragais Missègre Molandier Molleville Montauriol Montazels Montbrun-des-Corbières Montclar Montferrand Montfort-sur-Boulzane Montgaillard Montgradail Monthaut Montirat Montjardin Montjoi Montmaur Montolieu Montréal Montredon-des-Corbières Montséret Monze Moussan Moussoulens Mouthoumet Moux Narbonne subpr Nébias Névian Niort-de-Sault Ornaisons Orsans Ouveillan Padern Palairac Palaja La Palme Paraza Pauligne Payra-sur-l'Hers Paziols Pécharic-et-le-Py Pech-Luna Pennautier Pépieux Pexiora Peyrefitte-du-Razès Peyrefitte-sur-l'Hers Peyrens Peyriac-de-Mer Peyriac-Minervois Peyrolles Pezens Pieusse Plaigne Plavilla La Pomarède Pomas Pomy Portel-des-Corbières Port-la-Nouvelle Pouzols-Minervois Pradelles-Cabardès Preixan Puginier Puichéric Puilaurens Puivert Quillan Quintillan Quirbajou Raissac-d'Aude Raissac-sur-Lampy La Redorte Rennes-le-Château Rennes-les-Bains Ribaute Ribouisse Ricaud Rieux-en-Val Rieux-Minervois Rivel Rodome Roquecourbe-Minervois Roquefère Roquefeuil Roquefort-de-Sault Roquefort-des-Corbières Roquetaillade-et-Conilhac Roubia Rouffiac-d'Aude Rouffiac-des-Corbières Roullens Routier Rustiques Saint-Amans Saint-André-de-Roquelongue Saint-Benoît Saint-Couat-d'Aude Saint-Couat-du-Razès Saint-Denis Sainte-Camelle Sainte-Colombe-sur-Guette Sainte-Colombe-sur-l'Hers Sainte-Eulalie Sainte-Valière Saint-Ferriol Saint-Frichoux Saint-Gaudéric Saint-Hilaire Saint-Jean-de-Barrou Saint-Jean-de-Paracol Saint-Julia-de-Bec Saint-Julien-de-Briola Saint-Just-et-le-Bézu Saint-Laurent-de-la-Cabrerisse Saint-Louis-et-Parahou Saint-Marcel-sur-Aude Saint-Martin-des-Puits Saint-Martin-de-Villereglan Saint-Martin-Lalande Saint-Martin-le-Vieil Saint-Martin-Lys Saint-Michel-de-Lanès Saint-Nazaire-d'Aude Saint-Papoul Saint-Paulet Saint-Pierre-des-Champs Saint-Polycarpe Saint-Sernin Saissac Sallèles-Cabardès Sallèles-d'Aude Salles-d'Aude Salles-sur-l'Hers Salsigne Salvezines Salza Seignalens La Serpent Serres Serviès-en-Val Sigean Sonnac-sur-l'Hers Sougraigne Souilhanels Souilhe Soulatgé Soupex Talairan Taurize Termes Terroles Thézan-des-Corbières La Tourette-Cabardès Tournissan Tourouzelle Tourreilles Trassanel Trausse Trèbes Treilles Tréville Tréziers Tuchan Val-de-Dagne Val-de-Lambronne Val-du-Faby Valmigère Ventenac-Cabardès Ventenac-en-Minervois Véraza Verdun-en-Lauragais Verzeille Vignevieille Villalier Villanière Villardebelle Villardonnel Villar-en-Val Villar-Saint-Anselme Villarzel-Cabardès Villarzel-du-Razès Villasavary Villautou Villebazy Villedaigne Villedubert Villefloure Villefort Villegailhenc Villegly Villelongue-d'Aude Villemagne Villemoustaussou Villeneuve-la-Comptal Villeneuve-les-Corbières Villeneuve-lès-Montréal Villeneuve-Minervois Villepinte Villerouge-Termenès Villesèque-des-Corbières Villesèquelande Villesiscle Villespy Villetritouls Vinassan pref : prefecture subpr : subprefecture Authority control International VIAF National France BnF data Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Belpech&oldid=1123357628 " Category : Communes of Aude Hidden categories: CS1 French-language sources (fr) Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Geography articles needing translation from French Wikipedia Infobox mapframe without OSM relation ID on Wikidata Coordinates on Wikidata Pages using infobox settlement with image map1 but not image map Articles with hAudio microformats Articles containing Occitan (post 1500)-language text Commons category link is on Wikidata Articles with VIAF identifiers Articles with BNF identifiers Articles with BNFdata identifiers Aude communes articles needing translation from French Wikipedia Pages using the Kartogra