 See also: Tax system in China State Taxation Administration 国家税务总局 The cap badge for civil servant of State Administration of Taxation and its affiliates. Agency overview Formed 1958 Jurisdiction People's Republic of China Headquarters Beijing Agency executive Wang Jun , Director of State Taxation Administration Parent agency State Council Website http://www.chinatax.gov.cn Main office The State Taxation Administration ( STA , Chinese : 国家税务总局) is a ministerial-level department within the government of the People's Republic of China . It is under the direction of the State Council , and is responsible for the collection of taxes and enforces the state revenue laws . Previously known as State Administration of Taxation . Mandates [ edit ] Drafting tax laws and regulations; formulating detailed implementation rules for tax laws and regulations; putting forward suggestions on tax policies, and together with the Ministry of Finance , reviewing the suggestions and submitting them to the State Council; formulating implementation rules for tax policies. Measuring the overall tax burden and putting forward suggestions on how to use tax for regulation purpose; formulating tax rules and procedures and supervising their implementation; providing guidance for local tax collection and administration. Organizing collection and administration for central taxes, shared taxes and contributions to state-designated funds; working out revenue plans; providing interpretation for issues concerning tax collection and administration and general tax policy issues arising from the implementation of tax laws and regulations. Conducting international exchange and cooperation on taxation; negotiating and applying agreements on avoidance of double taxation and prevention of fiscal evasion with respect to taxes on income and capital . Regulating the collection and refund of VAT and Excise Tax on imports and exports . Being responsible for the administration of human resources , salary, size and expenditure of SAT local offices; appointing and supervising the work of directors and deputy directors at the provincial level of SAT offices; advising on the appointment and removal of directors of local tax service at the provincial level. Facilitating education and training for tax staff at all levels to build up their professional skills and ethical standards. Organizing tax theoretical research and activities to promote tax awareness among the public; serving and regulating certified tax agents and tax agencies. Other mandates entrusted by the State Council. Organization [ edit ] The Commissioner and four Deputy Commissioners of SAT are appointed by the State Council. One Chief Economist and one Chief Accountant are also members of the top leadership of the SAT. Departments [ edit ] There are 14 functional departments within the Headquarters of SAT, each of which consists of several divisions (offices) as follows: Departments Functions & Divisions General Office consisting of Division of Secretaries, Secretariat Division, Supervisory Division, Comprehensive Research Division, News Division and Financial Division Policy and Legislation Department consisting of Division of Comprehensive Affairs, Tax Reform Division, Legislative Division and Appeal Division Turnover Tax Department ( in charge of the administration of VAT, Consumption Tax and Business Tax): consisting of Comprehensive Division, VAT Division, Consumption Tax Division and Business Tax Division Income tax Administration Department (in charge of administration of Enterprise Income Tax and Individual Income Tax): consisting of Comprehensive Division, Central Enterprise Income Tax Division, Local Enterprise Income Tax Division and Individual Income Tax Division Local Tax Department (in charge of administration of Resource Tax, City and Township Land Use Tax, City Maintenance and Construction Tax, Fixed Assets Investment Orientation Regulation Tax, Land Appreciation Tax, House Property Tax, Vehicle and Vessel Usage Tax, Stamp Tax, Slaughter Tax and Banquet Tax): consisting of Comprehensive Division, Local Tax Division I, Local Tax Division II and Local Tax Division III; Agriculture Tax Bureau (in charge of administration of Agriculture Tax, Animal Husbandry Tax, Deed Tax and Farmland Occupation Tax): consisting of Comprehensive Division, Agriculture Tax Division I and Agriculture Tax II International Taxation Department (Offshore Oil Tax Bureau): consisting of Comprehensive Tax Policy Division, Tax Administration Division, Anti-Tax Avoidance Division, Offshore Oil Tax Division, International Tax Treaty Division, Foreign Affairs Division and Foreign Cooperative Division; Import and Export Tax Department ( responsible for VAT and Consumption Tax on importation and exportation ): consisting of Comprehensive Division, Import Tax Division and Export Tax Division; Administration and Collection Department consisting of Comprehensive Division, Tax Propaganda Division, Invoice Management Division and Open Market Tax Division; Tax Investigation Department consisting of Comprehensive Division, Procedure Division, Investigation Division I and Investigation Division II Financial Management Department consisting of Funding Division, Infrastructure Division and Equipment Division; Planning and Statistical Department consisting of Comprehensive Division, Planning Division, Statistical Division and Macro-Analysis Division; Personnel Department consisting of Comprehensive Division Personnel Division for Headquarters, Personnel Division for Local Offices, Recruit Division and Grass-root Work Division; and Supervision Bureau (representative office of Supervision Ministry):consisting of Secretariat Division, Discipline Inspection and Supervision Division and Division for Letters of Complaints. Other [ edit ] Besides, some non-governmental institutions directly under the Headquarters of SAT are Education Center, Logistical Service Center, Information Technology Center, Registered Tax Agent Management Center, Tax Science Research Institute, China Taxation Magazine, China Taxation Newspaper, China Taxation Press, Yangzhou Training Center and Changchun Tax College. Tax classification [ edit ] Category of Taxes Type of Taxes Turnover Taxes VAT Consumption Tax Business Tax Income Taxes Enterprise Income Tax Income Tax on Enterprises With Foreign Investment and Foreign Enterprise Individual Income Tax Resource Taxes Resource Tax Urban and Township Land Use Tax Special Purpose Taxes City Maintenance and Construction Tax Farmland Occupation Tax Fixed Assets Investment Orientation Regulation Tax Land Appreciation Tax Property Taxes House Property Tax City Real Estate Tax Inheritance Tax Behavioral Taxes Vehicle and Vessel Usage Tax Vehicle and Vessel Usage Plate Tax Stamp Tax Deed Tax Security Exchange Tax Slaughter Tax Banquet Tax Agriculture Taxes Agriculture Tax Animal Husbandry Tax Customs Duties Customs Duties Notes: 1. Slaughter Tax, Banquet Tax and Animal Husbandry Tax are now decentralised to the local governments for administration. Whether levying or not shall be at the discretion of the governments at provincial level for decision by taking into account the local conditions. 2. Inheritance Tax and Security Exchange Tax have not yet been legislated to date. List of directors [ edit ] Name Chinese name Duration in office Li Yu'ang ( 李予昂 ) 1949–1958 Ren Ziliang ( 任子良 ) 1961–1978 Liu Zhicheng ( 刘志城 ) 1978–1984 Jin Xin ( 金鑫 ) 1984–1995 Liu Zhongli ( 刘仲藜 ) 1994–1998 Jin Renqing ( 金人庆 ) 1998–2003 Xie Xuren ( 谢旭人 ) 2003–2007 Xiao Jie ( 肖捷 ) 2007–2013 Wang Jun ( 王军 ) 2013–present External links [ edit ] State Administration of Taxation official website v t e Economy of China Companies of China History History Reform Five-year plans Industrial Revolution Iron rice bowl Three-anti and Five-anti Campaigns Great Leap Forward Four Modernizations Socialist market economy Deng Xiaoping's southern tour " Grasping the large, letting go of the small " Scientific Outlook on Development Historical GDP Population history 1949–1976 wage reform Industries Industry history Advanced materials Aquaculture Automotive Aviation Aircraft Aerospace Beer Biotechnology Business process outsourcing Cement Coffee Container Cotton Electric motor Electric power Electronics Film Fishing Gambling Hedge fund Internet Media Mining gold mining Mobile phone Online gaming Pearl farming Pharmaceuticals and pharmacy Publishing and academic publishing Radio Railway equipment industry Rare earth Real estate Renewable energy Securities Sex toys Shipping Silk Software Steel Telecommunications Television digital Tourism Textiles Video gaming Wine Development Zones Dalian Software Park Megalopolises in China Special Economic Zones Suzhou Industrial Park Zhangjiang Hi-Tech Park Energy Energy policy Coal Oil Oil shale Oil refineries Nuclear Renewable Wind Solar Geothermal Trade and infrastructure Trade history World Trade Center Transport Communications Postal history Tourism Shipping Illegal drug trade Hong Kong Trade Development Council Ports Water supply and sanitation Exports Trading partners Law and regulations Tax system Labor contract law Labor relations Food safety Intellectual property Finance and banking Financial system Financial services Renminbi China Banknote Printing and Minting Corporation Banking History Central bank Other banks Foreign exchange reserve Beijing Financial Street Stock Exchange Executive Council Shanghai Stock Exchange SSE Composite Index Shenzhen Stock Exchange SZSE Component Index National Equities Exchange and Quotations Beijing Stock Exchange Dalian Commodity Exchange Shanghai Metal Exchange Zhengzhou Commodity Exchange Hedge fund industry Accounting Government institutions National Development and Reform Commission Ministry of Finance Ministry of Commerce Ministry of Industry and Information Technology State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission State Administration for Industry and Commerce State Administration of Taxation All-China Federation of Trade Unions China Council for the Promotion of International Trade General Administration of Customs China Banking Regulatory Commission China Securities Regulatory Commission China Insurance Regulatory Commission State Administration of Foreign Exchange Statistics All-China Federation of Industry and Commerce CITIC Group China Investment Corporation National Energy Commission China-Africa Development Fund China Integrated Circuit Industry Investment Fund Development International rankings Social welfare Poverty Corruption Standard of living Foreign aid Urbanization Internal migration Emigration Rural credit cooperative National economic initiatives Beijing Consensus Belt and Road Initiative Common prosperity Dual circulation Go Out policy Made in China 2025 Youth Business China Regional economic initiatives Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank Beibu Gulf Economic Rim Bohai Economic Rim China Western Development Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macau Greater Bay Area Mainland and Hong Kong Closer Economic Partnership Arrangement Mainland and Macau Closer Economic Partnership Arrangement Northeast China Revitalization Pearl River Delta Economic Zone Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership Rise of Central China Plan Western Taiwan Straits Economic Zone Yangtze River Delta Economic Zone Zhongyuan Economic Zone Events 2005–2011 property bubble 2007 export / pet food recalls 2007 stock bubble 2007 slave scandal 2008–2009 economic stimulus plan 2010 Expo 2015–16 stock market turbulence Protein export contamination China–United States trade war 2020–2021 reform spree Related topics Agriculture Bankruptcy Companies Largest Top 500 Largest SOEs The Hongs Demographics Globalization Globalization and women National Standards China Compulsory Certificate Made in China Mingong List of Chinese by net worth Chinese economists Science and technology See also: Category Outline of China Economy of East Asia v t e State Council of the People's Republic of China Incumbent ( 14th ): Li Qiang Cabinet State Council Constituent Members ( Plenary Meeting [ zh ] ) Executive Meeting [ zh ] Premier Vice Premiers State Councilors Secretary-General Ministers in charge of ministries/commissions Auditor-General Constituent Departments (ministries, commissions, central bank, audit office) Foreign Aff. Defense Development & Reform Education Sci. & Tech. Industry & IT Ethnic Aff. Public Security State Security Civil Aff. Justice Finance HR & Soc. Security Natural Res. Eco. & Env. Housing & Urban-Rural Dev. Transport Water Res. Agri. & Rural Aff. Commerce Culture & Tourism Health Veterans Aff. Emergency People's Bank Audit Office Agencies directly under the State Council General Office Secretary-General Deputy Secretaries-General Special Administration State Assets State Administrations Customs Taxation Market Regulation Standardization Cert. & Accred. Radio & TV Sport Statistics Intl. Dev. Coop. Healthcare Security Counsellors Government Offices Press & Publication (☭ Publicity Dept.) Religious Aff. ( ☭ United Front Dept. ) Administrative Offices HK & MO Aff. Research Overseas Chinese Aff. ( ☭ United Front Dept. ) Taiwan Aff. ( ☭ Leading Group ) Cyberspace Admin. ( ☭ Cyberspace Comm. ) Information ( ☭ Publicity Dept. ) Institutions Xinhua News Agency Academy of Sci. Academy of Eng. Academy of Soc. Sci. Development Research Center China Media Group Meteorology Bank. & Insur. Securities Academy of Governance ( a.k.a. ☭ Central Party School ) State Administrations administrated by ministry-level agencies Complaints & Proposals Food & Strategic Reserves Energy Defense Industry Tobacco Immigration Forestry & Grassland Railway Civil Aviation Post Cultural Heritage Traditional Medicine Disease Control Mine Safety Foreign Exchange Medical Products Intellectual Property State Secrets ( ☭ Secrecy Comm. ) National Archives ( a.k.a. ☭ Central Archives ) Civil Service ( ☭ Org. Dept. ) Cryptography ( ☭ Leading Group ) State Council = Central People's Government ( constitutionally since 1954 ) ☭ denotes name reserved by Communist Party agencies . Authority control ISNI VIAF WorldCat Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=State_Taxation_Administration&oldid=1103028210 " Categories : Revenue services Government agencies of China Taxation in China 1958 establishments in China Government agencies established in 1958 State Council of the People's Republic of China Organizations based in Beijing Hidden categories: Articles containing Chinese-language text Official website different in Wikidata and Wikipedia Articles with ISNI identifiers Articles with VIAF identifiers Articles with WorldC