 Avenue d'Iéna - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Languages Language links are at the top of the page across from the title. Search Create account Log in Personal tools Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 History 2 Composition 3 Fiction 4 References 5 External links Toggle the table of contents Toggle the table of contents Avenue d'Iéna 9 languages Azərbaycanca Deutsch Français Italiano Norsk bokmål Português Suomi Svenska 中文 Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page . ( Learn how and when to remove these template messages ) This article relies largely or entirely on a single source . Relevant discussion may be found on the talk page . Please help improve this article by introducing citations to additional sources . Find sources: "Avenue d'Iéna" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( September 2021 ) This article includes a list of references , related reading , or external links , but its sources remain unclear because it lacks inline citations . Please help to improve this article by introducing more precise citations. ( September 2021 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this template message ) The topic of this article may not meet Wikipedia's notability guideline for geographic features . Please help to demonstrate the notability of the topic by citing reliable secondary sources that are independent of the topic and provide significant coverage of it beyond a mere trivial mention. If notability cannot be shown, the article is likely to be merged , redirected , or deleted . Find sources: "Avenue d'Iéna" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( September 2021 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this template message ) ( Learn how and when to remove this template message ) Avenue d'Iéna View from the third floor of the Eiffel Tower Shown within Paris Length 1,140 m (3,740 ft) Width 36 m (118 ft) Arrondissement 16th Quarter Chaillot Coordinates 48°52′06.00″N 2°17′44.50″E ﻿ / ﻿ 48.8683333°N 2.2956944°E ﻿ / 48.8683333; 2.2956944 Coordinates : 48°52′06.00″N 2°17′44.50″E ﻿ / ﻿ 48.8683333°N 2.2956944°E ﻿ / 48.8683333; 2.2956944 From 6 avenue Albert De Mun To place Charles de Gaulle (place de l'Etoile) Construction Completion March 6, 1858 Denomination March 2, 1864 The Avenue d'Iéna is a tree-lined avenue in the 16th arrondissement of Paris , running from the Trocadéro (Avenue Albert De Mun) to the Place de l'Étoile . Passing through Place d'Iéna, Place de l'Amiral de Grasse, Place de l'Uruguay and Place Richard de Coudenhove Kalergi on the way. It is named from the neighbouring bridge across the Seine , the Pont d'Iéna (itself named after the Battle of Iena ). It has a length of 1,150 metres (0.71 mi) and an average width of 35 metres (115 ft). The avenue is intersected by: At the Place d'Iéna : Avenue du Président Wilson, Rue de Longchamp, Rue Boissière, Avenue Pierre 1er de Serbie; At the Place de l'Amiral de Grasse : Rue de Lubeck, Place des États-Unis /Square Thomas Jefferson, Rue de Bassano, Rue Georges Bizet, Rue Freycinet; At the Place de l'Uruguay : Rue Galilée, Rue Jean Giraudoux; At the Place Richard de Coudenhove Kalergi : Rue Auguste Vacquerie, Rue Jean Giraudoux ; Rue Newton; Rue Dumont d'Urville; Rue De la Perouse; Rue De Presbourg. The closest metro stations are: Iéna near the southern end of the Place d'Iéna. Charles de Gaulle - Étoile at the northern end of the Place Charles de Gaulle - Étoile. History [ edit ] On the March 2, 1864, the Avenue d'Iéna replaced the former rue des Batailles , which ran between the avenue Albert De Mun and the Place d'Iéna. The rue des Batailles had been a street in the village of Chaillot, engulfed by the expanding Paris in 1786. For some years afterwards, two town boundaries of Chaillot could be seen at the wall of sieur Lélu and the house of sieur Jamard . The street housed several hospitals and a private lunatic asylum was set up in the house once occupied by the Chevalier Pierre Bayard du Terrail. The chemist Charles Derosne (1779–1846), worked in 7 rue des Batailles at the extraction of sugar from sugarbeet. On December 20, 1961, the name Place de l'Uruguay was given to the intersection of the streets Rue Galilée and Jean Giraudoux with the avenue. Composition [ edit ] n° 1 : Palais d'Iéna, a classified monument partly constructed by Auguste Perret including a rotunda. n° 2 (corner of the avenue d'Iéna and the avenue Albert-de-Mun): Site where the mansion of politician Daniel Wilson was erected. It then became then the private residence of the ambassador of the United States. This was subsequently demolished, giving place to a modern building, leaving only the enclosing wall surmounted by grilles. This building is currently the Cultural Centre of the Korean Embassy (in French and Korean) . n° 4: Hôtel Sanchez de Larragoiti was built in 1897-1898 by architect Xavier Schoellkopf for Joaquim Sanchez de Larragoiti. The original architect was Édward Georgé who died in 1897. The house was probably the first masterpiece of Art Nouveau architecture in Paris. It was sold in 1907 and transformed by architect Gustave Rives who removed almost all the Art Nouveau decorations and replaced them with Louis XV style, replacing Schoellkopf's signature with his own. The house was featured with illustrations in La Construction Moderne, 12, 20 and 27 January 1900, available to view at the library of the Cité de l'Architecture in Paris. n° 6: Hôtel de Cambacérès: I retain a very exact memory , wrote André Becq de Fouquières , of the balls held in this beautiful residence during the spring of 1913 and I still see the Count of Jarnac, the host's uncle, receiving the masked ladies, in their periwinkle-coloured dominos, handing their personal invitation cards to him and dissimulating anonymity under velvet and silk. On the terrace, the countess Stanislas de Montebello helped her brother do the honors for the evening. There was all the nobility of France, many diplomats; and I remember that this night I saw for the last time before the war, in which they were to play such a part, the princes Sixte and Xavier of Bourbon-Parma. ( Mon Paris et ses Parisiens , 1953, p. 144). This building is currently the Iranian Embassy. n° 8: Ex mansion of the Philippe family. It also was the Paris residence of the baron Philippe de Rothschild who used to rent the first floor. It is now part of The Shangri-La Hotel. n° 10: Mansion of Prince Roland Bonaparte . Sir Charles Mendl and Lady Mendl occupied an apartment there. The painter Jean-Gabriel Domergue had his studio here. This is probably the site No. 12, rue des Batailles in which Balzac had a flat in 1834. Today this building is the head office of Ubifrance , the French agency for the international development of companies. In 2009 it reopened as a luxury five-star hotel: The Shangri-La Hotel Paris. n° 11: A building on the site of the mansion of Charles Ephrussi . n° 17: Houses the German Goethe Institute (in French and German) . n° 19: A private mansion built in 1913, in the neo-classic style, by René Sergent for Alfred Heidelbach which currently houses the galleries of the Japanese and Chinese Panthéon Bouddhique of the Guimet Museum . n° 30: Houses the Union Équestre d'Île de France , the equestrian union. Also in the building are Fédération Internationale de Tourisme Équestre , Fédération Française d'Équitation (FFE) , Délégation Nationale au Tourisme Équestre (DNTE) and Ligue Française pour la Protection du Cheval et du Poney n° 38: An interesting mansion in the Renaissance style built for the politician George Cochery , erected by the architect Charles Letrosne and transformed into a residential building. n° 40: Is the Centre Félix-Grat one of the centres of the IRHT ( Institut de recherche et d’histoire des textes ) the French research centre for texts, a branch of the CNRS (Centre national de la recherche scientifique). n° 49: A private mansion constructed in 1897 by Ernest Sanson for Maurice Kann on the site of a stone-built house which belonged to the Doctor Samuel Jean de Pozzi . The building remains to this day, though divided among several companies. n° 50: This building is currently the Embassy of the Sultanate of Oman . n° 51: A private mansion constructed in 1897 by Ernest Sanson for Rodolphe Kann , transformed for the businessman Calouste Gulbenkian by the architect Emmanuel Pontremoli and the firm of Mewes and Davis . It houses the Portuguese Fondation Calouste Gulbenkian (in French) . n° 56: Mansion of Rochefoucauld (corner of the avenue d'Iéna and the Rue Georges Bizet): This building is currently the Egyptian Embassy. Fiction [ edit ] Christopher Newman in The American by Henry James dined with Mr. and Mrs. Tristram at their apartment on the avenue. In the James Bond book, Thunderball , commenting on the wealth of the street Ian Fleming writes that "too many of the landlords and tenants in the Avenue d'Iéna have names ending in 'escou,' 'ovitch,' 'ski,' and 'stein' " . References [ edit ] Balzac by Frederick Lawton External links [ edit ] Map of Paris (browser plugin required) Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Avenue_d%27Iéna&oldid=1053250523 " Categories : Avenues (landscape) in Paris 16th arrondissement of Paris Hidden categories: Articles needing additional references from September 2021 All articles needing additional references Articles lacking in-text citations from September 2021 All articles lacking in-text citations Articles with topics of unclear notability from September 2021 All articles with topics of unclear notability Geography articles with topics of unclear notability Articles with multiple maintenance issues Coordinates on Wikidata Pages using infobox street with Paris-specific parameters This page was last edited on 2 November 2021, at 20:25 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0 ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement 