 The Myth of Sisyphus (Fargo) - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Languages Language links are at the top of the page across from the title. Search Create account Log in Personal tools Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Plot 2 Production 3 Reception Toggle Reception subsection 3.1 Ratings 3.2 Critical reception 4 References 5 External links Toggle the table of contents Toggle the table of contents The Myth of Sisyphus ( Fargo ) Add languages Add links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 3rd episode of the 2nd season of Fargo " The Myth of Sisyphus " Fargo episode Episode no. Season 2 Episode 3 Directed by Michael Uppendahl Written by Bob DeLaurentis Featured music Jeff Russo Production code XFO02003 Original air date October 26, 2015 ( 2015-10-26 ) Running time 47 minutes Guest appearances Cristin Milioti as Betsy Solverson Jeffrey Donovan as Dodd Gerhardt Bokeem Woodbine as Mike Milligan Brad Garrett as Joe Bulo Mike Bradecich as Skip Sprang Elizabeth Marvel as Constance Heck Episode chronology ← Previous " Before the Law " Next → " Fear and Trembling " Fargo (season 2) List of episodes " The Myth of Sisyphus " is the third episode of the second season of the FX anthology series Fargo , and the thirteenth episode of the series overall. It was written by Bob DeLaurentis and directed by Michael Uppendahl . The episode first aired on October 26, 2015, and was seen by 1.21 million viewers. [1] Plot [ edit ] The manhunt for Rye begins after fingerprints are pulled from the gun found at the Waffle Hut. At the same time, Milligan, Dodd and his henchman Hanzee ( Zahn McClarnon ) each conduct an independent search for him. Hank encounters Betsy while hanging a wanted picture of Rye at the local beauty salon. She speculates that Rye is the victim of a potential hit and run. Peggy discounts Betsy's theory, but quickly convinces Ed to crash her car a second time to explain the damage caused by hitting Rye. Meanwhile, Lou travels to Fargo to meet Detective Ben Schmidt ( Keir O'Donnell ). They visit the Gerhardt farm and have a tense encounter with the clan. Lou then visits Skip's typewriter store, where he encounters Milligan and the Kitchen brothers, also searching for clues, resulting in another standoff. Dodd's daughter Simone ( Rachel Keller ) tips off Hanzee about a lead on Rye, and they ambush Skip at Rye's apartment. He is brought to Dodd for interrogation. Dodd learns that Skip has no information on his brother's whereabouts. He and Hanzee force Skip into an open grave and bury him alive in hot asphalt. Dodd then tells Hanzee to do what is necessary to find Rye, beginning in Luverne. Production [ edit ] The music for the episode was provided by series composer Jeff Russo . [2] Reception [ edit ] Ratings [ edit ] The episode first aired in the United States on FX on October 19, 2015 and obtained 1.21 million viewers. [1] Critical reception [ edit ] "The Myth of Sisyphus" received critical acclaim, particularly for its pace and Patrick Wilson 's performance. It currently holds a perfect 100% rating on Rotten Tomatoes : the critical consensus is "’The Myth of Sisyphus’ is a tense episode of Fargo, highlighted by an especially impressive performance by Patrick Wilson." [3] In a highly positive review, Terri Schwartz of IGN gave the episode a 9.3 rating out of 10, concluding that "With great direction and excellent acting, Fargo delivers a great third outing. The three tense showdowns underline the fact that stakes are being raised, as Lou Solverson fights the good fight to try to combat the evil deeds being committed around him. But he is in over his head, and is beginning to notice. Time is running out for him to discover what happened to Rye before more nefarious forces do and turn the Waffle Hut clue trail cold." [4] References [ edit ] ^ a b Porter, Rick (November 3, 2015). "Monday cable ratings: 'Monday Night Football' leads the way, plus 'Real Housewives of OC,' 'Love & Hip Hop,' 'WWE Raw' " . TV by the Numbers. Archived from the original on July 6, 2016 . Retrieved November 5, 2015 . ^ "Season premiere review: 'Fargo' – 'Waiting for Dutch': Sounds of the Seventies" . Uproxx . October 12, 2015 . Retrieved April 15, 2017 . ^ " "The Myth of Sisyphus" critical consensus" . Rotten Tomatoes . Retrieved December 6, 2018 . ^ "FARGO: "THE MYTH OF SISYPHUS" REVIEW" . IGN . October 26, 2015 . Retrieved December 6, 2018 . External links [ edit ] "The Myth of Sisyphus" at IMDb v t e Fargo TV series Episodes Season 1 " The Crocodile's Dilemma " " The Rooster Prince " " A Muddy Road " " Eating the Blame " " The Six Ungraspables " " Buridan's Ass " " Who Shaves the Barber? " " The Heap " " A Fox, a Rabbit, and a Cabbage " " Morton's Fork " Season 2 " Waiting for Dutch " " Before the Law " " The Myth of Sisyphus " " Fear and Trembling " " The Gift of the Magi " " Rhinoceros " " Did You Do This? No, You Did It! " " Loplop " " The Castle " " Palindrome " Season 3 " The Law of Vacant Places " " The Principle of Restricted Choice " " The Law of Non-Contradiction " " The Narrow Escape Problem " " The House of Special Purpose " " The Lord of No Mercy " " The Law of Inevitability " " Who Rules the Land of Denial? " " Aporia " " Somebody to Love " Season 4 " Welcome to the Alternate Economy " " The Land of Taking and Killing " " Raddoppiarlo " " The Pretend War " " The Birthplace of Civilization " " Camp Elegance " " Lay Away " " The Nadir " " East/West " " Happy " " Storia Americana " Characters Season 1 Lorne Malvo Molly Solverson Gus Grimly Lester Nygaard Lou Solverson Mr. Wrench and Mr. Numbers Moses Tripoli Season 2 Peggy Blumquist Ed Blumquist Lou Solverson Floyd Gerhardt Hanzee Dent Season 3 Emmit Stussy Ray Stussy Gloria Burgle V. M. Varga Mr. Wrench Related articles Awards and nominations for the TV series Little Miss Sunshine Death of Takako Konishi Kumiko, the Treasure Hunter " A Serious Flanders " The Simpsons Category Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=The_Myth_of_Sisyphus_(Fargo)&oldid=1084338930 " Categories : Fargo (TV series) episodes 2015 American television episodes Television episodes directed by Michael Uppendahl Hidden categories: Use mdy dates from January 2020 Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Television episode articles with short description for single episodes Television episode articles with short description and disambiguated page names This page was last edited on 23 April 2022, at 22:34 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0 ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement 