 Intro to Recycled Cinema - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Languages Language links are at the top of the page across from the title. Search Create account Log in Personal tools Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Plot 2 Cultural references 3 Production 4 Critical reception 5 References 6 External links Toggle the table of contents Toggle the table of contents Intro to Recycled Cinema Add languages Add links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 8th episode of the 6th season of Community " Intro to Recycled Cinema " Community episode Episode no. Season 6 Episode 8 Directed by Victor Nelli, Jr. Written by Clay Lapari Production code 608 Original air date April 28, 2015 ( 2015-04-28 ) Running time 28 minutes Guest appearances Paget Brewster as Francesca "Frankie" Dart Keith David as Elroy Patashnik Richard Erdman as Leonard Briggs Erik Charles Nielsen as Garrett Lambert Brooke Burns as TV Host Steve Guttenberg as Maury Luke Youngblood as Magnitude Randall Park as himself Episode chronology ← Previous " Advanced Safety Features " Next → " Grifting 101 " Community (season 6) List of episodes " Intro to Recycled Cinema " is the eighth episode of the sixth season of the American comedy television series Community , and the 105th episode of the series overall. It was released on Yahoo! Screen in the United States on April 28, 2015. Plot [ edit ] Chang has recently starred in a ham commercial, where his catchphrase has gone viral, leading him to move out to Los Angeles without notifying anyone else, much to the Save Greendale Committee's disgust. Frankie suggests that Greendale cash in on Chang's new-found fame by turning a cancelled cop drama Abed was filming, Police Justice , into a new movie. An investor, Maury, tells them that they can use Chang's footage to create an entirely different experience, and that a producer who did a similar task with Vin Diesel earned $500,000 in revenue. Abed reluctantly agrees, worrying that the film will be bad as they are given only one weekend to complete it. Abed ends up directing various Greendale students in the film Chief Starr and the Raiders of the Galaxy , incorporating outtake audio and recycled footage of Chang. The Dean stars as Chang's stand-in body double, while Jeff plays the mayor of outer space, Britta plays Princess Meridian, and Annie stars as Scorpio 9, a pleasure droid assassin. Abed tries to do his usual repetitive takes, but everyone else wants to improvise every moment of the film and move on without reshoots. Noticing his perfectionism, Jeff pulls Abed aside and convinces him that he needs to try different things then learn from them and move on, thereby getting the film on track. The scattershot, poorly planned film manages to be completed, when Maury tells Abed to edit out six minutes of footage. Everyone but Jeff agrees to cut out Jeff's prolonged death scene, as it does not feature Chang; refusing to let the one scene he put effort into go to waste, Jeff steals Abed's laptop and locks himself in the basement to edit out different portions. While Jeff watches video editing tutorials, Abed breaks into the room. They argue and briefly fight, after which Jeff confesses that he is suffering an identity crisis. With the departures of Pierce, Troy, Shirley, and Chang, Annie's and Abed's career plans, and Britta's bartending commitments, Jeff believes he will be the last one to ever leave Greendale. Abed consoles Jeff by telling him that no matter what crap Jeff goes through, there will always be a moment worth savoring. They compromise by cutting out Jeff's scene and adding in an extended ending featuring Jeff taunting Chang. At the last minute, the film's producer Maury informs the group that the company funding the film went bankrupt thanks to YouTube and Chang's credibility has tanked after going crazy with celebrities. Back in LA, a hungover Chang talks back to an unseen Steven Spielberg and is replaced by Randall Park ; in the end tag, he awkwardly returns to Greendale. Cultural references [ edit ] This episode parodies a scene from the original Star Wars when the characters fall into a trash compartment, as well as the films Raiders of the Lost Ark and Guardians of the Galaxy and actor Chris Pratt . The episode later lampoons the conventional distribution model of TV by suggesting the company set to distribute Abed's film just filed for bankruptcy because of the surge in online streaming. It also parodies The Big Bang Theory with Abed imitating Sheldon Cooper saying " bazinga " in a ball pit. Production [ edit ] On February 9, 2015, Dan Harmon disclosed that Steve Guttenberg would be appearing on an episode of Community . [1] On February 13, 2015, TV insider reported Guttenberg would play a Hollywood producer friend to Frankie. [2] On April 7, 2015, the episode's title was first revealed during an interview with Yahoo's Robert Chan. [3] Critical reception [ edit ] Den of Geek says, "This is the closest we’ve yet come to an homage-style episode this season and it’s good, fresh ground for Community to cover." [4] Hypable says, "After a relatively slow start, Community has really hit its stride mid-season with two stellar back-to-back episodes." [5] Flavorwire says, "the 3AM release time doesn’t help," and suggests that perhaps the show would be better served releasing the episodes at a time of day when social media would have a bigger impact. [6] IGN liked the premise of the episode, "The idea of Chang becoming a (very brief) star was amusing in and of itself, but it was how the Greendale gang reacted that really set the story in motion." [7] References [ edit ] ^ Harmon, Dan (February 9, 2015). ".@SteveGuttbuck is doing a guest role...@bcgoldthwait was doing his director's cut...so Tim Kazurinsky JUST, LIKE, APPEARED. #AcademyMagic" . Twitter . Retrieved February 9, 2015 . ^ Schneider, Michael (February 13, 2015). "There Was a Police Academy Reunion on the Community Set, and Steve Guttenberg Explains Why" . TV Insider . Retrieved February 13, 2015 . ^ Chan, Robert (April 7, 2015). " 'Community' Postmortem: Dan Harmon Talks 'Laws of Robotics and Party Rights' " . Yahoo . Retrieved April 7, 2015 . ^ Matar, Joe (April 28, 2015). "Community: Intro to Recycled Cinema Review" . Den of Geek . Retrieved April 28, 2015 . ^ Bojalad, Alec (28 April 2015). " 'Community' season 6, episode 8 recap: Haaaaaaaaam, girl!" . Hypable . Retrieved April 28, 2015 . ^ Viruet, Pilot (April 28, 2015). "Don't Let Fans' Silence Fool You — 'Community' Remains as Great as Ever in Season 6" . Flavorwire . Retrieved April 28, 2015 . ^ Goldman, Eric (April 28, 2015). "Community: "Intro to Recycled Cinema" Review" . IGN . Retrieved April 28, 2015 . External links [ edit ] "Intro to Recycled Cinema" at Yahoo! Screen .com "Community Postmortem with Dan Harmon on Intro to Recycled Cinema" at Yahoo TV "Intro to Recycled Cinema" at IMDb v t e Community Episodes Awards Characters Jeff Winger Abed Nadir Season 1 " Pilot " " Spanish 101 " " Introduction to Film " " Social Psychology " " Advanced Criminal Law " " Football, Feminism and You " " Introduction to Statistics " " Home Economics " " Debate 109 " " Environmental Science " " The Politics of Human Sexuality " " Comparative Religion " " Investigative Journalism " " Interpretive Dance " " Romantic Expressionism " " Communication Studies " " Physical Education " " Basic Genealogy " " Beginner Pottery " " The Science of Illusion " " Contemporary American Poultry " " The Art of Discourse " " Modern Warfare " " English as a Second Language " " Pascal's Triangle Revisited " Season 2 " Anthropology 101 " " Accounting for Lawyers " " The Psychology of Letting Go " " Basic Rocket Science " " Messianic Myths and Ancient Peoples " " Epidemiology " " Aerodynamics of Gender " " Cooperative Calligraphy " " Conspiracy Theories and Interior Design " " Mixology Certification " " Abed's Uncontrollable Christmas " " Asian Population Studies " " Celebrity Pharmacology " " Advanced Dungeons & Dragons " " Early 21st Century Romanticism " " Intermediate Documentary Filmmaking " " Intro to Political Science " " Custody Law and Eastern European Diplomacy " " Critical Film Studies " " Competitive Wine Tasting " " Paradigms of Human Memory " " Applied Anthropology and Culinary Arts " " A Fistful of Paintballs " " For a Few Paintballs More " Season 3 " Biology 101 " " Geography of Global Conflict " " Competitive Ecology " " Remedial Chaos Theory " " Horror Fiction in Seven Spooky Steps " " Advanced Gay " " Studies in Modern Movement " " Documentary Filmmaking: Redux " " Foosball and Nocturnal Vigilantism " " Regional Holiday Music " " Urban Matrimony and the Sandwich Arts " " Contemporary Impressionists " " Digital Exploration of Interior Design " " Pillows and Blankets " " Origins of Vampire Mythology " " Virtual Systems Analysis " " Basic Lupine Urology " " Course Listing Unavailable " " Curriculum Unavailable " " Digital Estate Planning " " The First Chang Dynasty " " Introduction to Finality " Season 4 " History 101 " " Paranormal Parentage " " Conventions of Space and Time " " Alternative History of the German Invasion " " Cooperative Escapism in Familial Relations " " Advanced Documentary Filmmaking " " Economics of Marine Biology " " Herstory of Dance " " Intro to Felt Surrogacy " " Intro to Knots " " Basic Human Anatomy " " Heroic Origins " " Advanced Introduction to Finality " Season 5 " Repilot " " Introduction to Teaching " " Basic Intergluteal Numismatics " " Cooperative Polygraphy " " Geothermal Escapism " " Analysis of Cork-Based Networking " " Bondage and Beta Male Sexuality " " App Development and Condiments " " VCR Maintenance and Educational Publishing " " Advanced Advanced Dungeons & Dragons " " G.I. Jeff " " Basic Story " " Basic Sandwich " Season 6 " Ladders " " Lawnmower Maintenance and Postnatal Care " " Basic Crisis Room Decorum " " Queer Studies and Advanced Waxing " " Laws of Robotics and Party Rights " " Basic Email Security " " Advanced Safety Features " " Intro to Recycled Cinema " " Grifting 101 " " Basic RV Repair and Palmistry " " Modern Espionage " " Wedding Videography " " Emotional Consequences of Broadcast Television " Inspector Spacetime: UWSAASTWCATTT Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Intro_to_Recycled_Cinema&oldid=1109440715 " Categories : 2015 American television episodes Community (season 6) episodes Television episodes about filmmaking Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Television episode articles with short description for single episodes This page was last edited on 9 September 2022, at 21:21 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0 ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement 