 Hulchul (1971 film) - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Languages Language links are at the top of the page across from the title. Search Create account Log in Personal tools Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Plot 2 Cast 3 Soundtrack 4 References 5 External links Toggle the table of contents Toggle the table of contents Hulchul (1971 film) 2 languages हिन्दी नेपाल भाषा Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 1971 Indian film Hulchul Poster Directed by O. P. Ralhan Written by C.J. Pavri O. P. Ralhan Produced by O. P. Ralhan Starring O. P. Ralhan, Prem Chopra , Helen and Madan Puri Cinematography Rajendra Malone Edited by Vasant Borkar Music by R.D. Burman Release date 1971 Country India Language Hindi Hulchul ( transl. Stir ) is a 1971 Indian Hindi -language comedy thriller film directed by O. P. Ralhan with himself playing lead role, with Prem Chopra , Helen and Madan Puri among others. Both Zeenat Aman and Kabir Bedi made their acting debuts with the film. This film was remake of Anubavam Pudhumai . [1] Plot [ edit ] Peter ( O. P. Ralhan ) and Kitty ( Helen ) love each other, but due to Peter's poverty, they are unable to marry each other. One day, during a secret rendezvous, Peter accidentally overhear a conversation between one Mahesh Jetley and his paramour, where Mahesh tells her that he is soon going to bump off his wife on a certain date. Peter and Kitty decide to foil this man's plans. However, there are 2 problems: 1 - They have not seen Mahesh or his paramour's face. 2 - Even if they had, no one would believe their story. Hence, the lovers decide to do a little investigation on their own. They find three Mahesh Jetleys. On some snooping, they find that each man is married and each of them has a miserable married life. To find their suspect, they devise a plan whereby they will stage an attack on each man's wife. Whoever the culprit is, will freak out and his identity will be revealed. However, each of their attacks goes awry and they get saved from being arrested each time, just by a whisker. The only positive outcome of this exercise is that they learn that each suspect is actually a man of fidelity. The lives of all the men come on track and love comes back into their lives. All the couples file a complaint in police station to find the culprit trying to break up their marriages. The Inspector ( Raza Murad ) investigates all the cases thoroughly and finally nails Peter and Kitty. In a courtroom battle, the public prosecutor ( Amrish Puri ) claims that the duo tried to break up the marriages to scoop up some money for their own marriage. Peter finally tells the truth to the court. On hearing Peter's story, the public prosecutor asks the court for a half-hour break. After the break ends, the prosecutor introduces a new witness - Kumar. Then, the prosecutor goes on to playback a tape, and Peter and Kitty are surprised to hear exactly the same conversation that they had heard. The prosecutor surprises the whole court by telling that Kumar is a director who directs plays for radio and that the "conversation" overheard by Peter and Kitty was actually aired on the radio that day. After discovering the amusing truth behind the whole affair, a bemused judge asks all the Jetley couples to decide the punishment for Peter and Kitty. However, all the couples forgive and thank the duo, as they did what anybody else would have done and that their "crime" has brought three marriages back from the brink of disaster. After the court is adjourned, Peter and Kitty are being escorted back by police where Peter sees a woman holding a portable radio that is airing the remaining part of Kumar's play. Peter asks the woman to switch off the radio, on which everybody nearby bursts into laughter. Cast [ edit ] O. P. Ralhan as Peter Prem Chopra as Mahesh Jetley #1 Madan Puri as Mahesh Jetley #2 Kabir Bedi as Mahesh Jetley #3 Gajanan Jagirdar as Padma's Father Ramesh Deo as Dir. Kumar Chandrashekhar as Shekhar Zeenat Aman as Leena Sonia Sahni as Seema Helen as Kitty D'Costa Anjali Kadam Chand Usmani as Shekhar's Wife Tun Tun as Philomena D'Costa Chandrima Bhaduri as Padma's Mother D. K. Sapru as The Judge Amrish Puri as Public Prosecutor Ram Mohan as Mohan Tabassum Soundtrack [ edit ] The music of the film was composed by R.D. Burman . No. Title Singer(s) Length 1. ""Hulchul" (Title Song)" Asha Bhosle and R.D. Burman References [ edit ] ^ "More Than 'Mogambo': The Many Shades of Amrish Puri" . 23 June 2022. External links [ edit ] Hulchul at IMDb Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Hulchul_(1971_film)&oldid=1115567303 " Categories : 1971 films 1970s Hindi-language films 1970s thriller films Films scored by R. D. Burman Hindi remakes of Tamil films Hidden categories: Use dmy dates from October 2015 Use Indian English from October 2015 All Wikipedia articles written in Indian English Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata IMDb ID same as Wikidata This page was last edited on 12 October 2022, at 03:26 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0 ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement 