 Georgetown Waterfront Park - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Languages Language links are at the top of the page across from the title. Search Create account Log in Personal tools Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 History 2 Design elements 3 References 4 External links Toggle the table of contents Toggle the table of contents Georgetown Waterfront Park 1 language Cebuano Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Park in Washington, D.C., U.S. Georgetown Waterfront Park Georgetown Waterfront Park with the Francis Scott Key Bridge and Whitehurst Freeway in the background in 2008 Location of Georgetown Waterfront Park in Washington, D.C. Location Washington, D.C. , U.S. Coordinates 38°54′08″N 77°03′43″W ﻿ / ﻿ 38.902155°N 77.061893°W ﻿ / 38.902155; -77.061893 Coordinates : 38°54′08″N 77°03′43″W ﻿ / ﻿ 38.902155°N 77.061893°W ﻿ / 38.902155; -77.061893 Area 10 acres (4.0 ha) Website www .georgetownwaterfrontpark .org Georgetown Waterfront Park is a national park completed in Washington, D.C. in the fall of 2011. Part of the Georgetown Historic District , the park stretches along the banks of the Potomac River from 31st Street, NW to the Key Bridge . The result of many years of advocacy and fundraising, the site features several notable design elements. Now complete, the park links 225 miles (362 km) of parkland along the Potomac River stretching from Cumberland, Maryland to Mount Vernon, Virginia . The park was designed to passively complement the natural curve of the river. History [ edit ] The park has been in various stages of planning and development for several decades. In 1968, the National Capital Planning Commission identified the Georgetown Waterfront as future parkland. An agreement was reached between the National Park Service and the mayor of the District of Columbia to transfer 10 acres (40,000 m 2 ) of land for the proposed park. In recent years, the Georgetown waterfront has been redeveloped from industrial blight to a thriving commercial and residential destination. Parts of the park site had served as a parking lot before construction began. The Washington Harbour complex and a movie theater on the Georgetown Incinerator site regularly draw crowds down to the waterfront. Design elements [ edit ] The park features gently sloping grass hills and shade trees. The landscape blends with mixed-use paved pathways. The promenade provides panoramic views of Theodore Roosevelt Island , the Key Bridge, and the Kennedy Center . Several distinctive design elements include an interactive fountain, river stairs, and scenic overlooks. This part of the park, known as the Wisconsin Avenue Plaza, serves as a gateway to the Potomac River. References [ edit ] A Short History of the Park Georgetown Historic District Historical Planning Document - Georgetown Waterfront Park Kaplan, Peter "City seeks plans for Georgetown incinerator", Washington Business Journal, Friday, June 28, 1996 External links [ edit ] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Georgetown Waterfront Park . Georgetown Waterfront Park - A National Park on the Potomac Lucas, Phillip "Phase 2 construction restarts at Georgetown Waterfront Park," The Washington Post, August 6, 2010 Dvorak, Petula "Hope for the Waterfront at Last?", The Washington Post, May 11, 2006 The Capital Crescent Trail Current Construction Wisconsin to 31st Street v t e Protected areas of the District of Columbia Federal National Cemeteries Battleground Soldiers' and Airmen's Home National Historical Parks Chesapeake and Ohio Canal National Historic Sites Carter G. Woodson Home Ford's Theatre Frederick Douglass Mary McLeod Bethune Council House Pennsylvania Avenue National Memorials Franklin Delano Roosevelt Korean War Veterans Lincoln Lyndon Baines Johnson Grove Theodore Roosevelt Island Thomas Jefferson Vietnam Veterans Washington Monument World War II National monuments Belmont-Paul Women's Equality President Lincoln and Soldiers' Home National Parkways Baltimore–Washington George Washington Memorial / Clara Barton Oxon Run Rock Creek and Potomac National Trails Potomac Heritage Star-Spangled Banner National Mall and Memorial Parks African American Civil War Constitution Gardens East Potomac Ford's Theater Franklin Delano Roosevelt George Mason Hains Point Thomas Jefferson John Ericsson Korean War Veterans Lincoln National Mall Pennsylvania Avenue Old Post Office United States Navy Vietnam Veterans Washington Monument West Potomac World War II President's Park The Ellipse Lafayette Park White House National Capital Parks-East Anacostia Belmont-Paul Women's Equality National Monument Capitol Hill Carter G. Woodson Home Fort Circle Fort Dupont Fort Stanton Frederick Douglass Kenilworth Mary McLeod Bethune Council House Oxon Run Parkway Shepherd Parkway Rock Creek Park Rock Creek Dumbarton Oaks Glover-Archbold Georgetown Waterfront Meridian Hill Montrose Old Stone House Rock Creek and Potomac Parkway Barnard Hill Park Bryce Park Little Forest Other areas National Capital Parks Navy Memorial v t e Georgetown, Washington, D.C. History Organic Act of 1801 Organic Act of 1871 Street renaming The Exorcist Washington County, D.C. Washington and Georgetown Railroad Historic sites 1222 28th Street NW Car Barn Chesapeake and Ohio Canal City Tavern Club Corcoran School Customhouse and Post Office Dumbarton House Dumbarton Oaks Evermay Exorcist steps Farmers and Mechanics Bank Forrest-Marbury House Georgetown Market Georgetown Neighborhood Library Georgetown University Astronomical Observatory Halcyon House John Stoddert Haw House Healy Hall Laird-Dunlop House Lauinger Library McDonough Gymnasium Old North Old Stone House Isaac Owens House Newton D. Baker House Prospect House Quality Hill Smith Row Statue of John Carroll Three Sisters Tidewater Lock Tudor Place Van Ness Mausoleum Vigilant Firehouse Volta Laboratory and Bureau Houses of worship Christ Church Dahlgren Chapel Georgetown Visitation Monastery Grace Episcopal Church Holy Trinity Catholic Church Kesher Israel Mount Zion United Methodist Church Oak Hill Cemetery Chapel St. John's Episcopal Church Streets and bridges Aqueduct Bridge Dumbarton Bridge K Street Bridge Key Bridge L Street Bridge M Street M Street Bridge P Street P Street Bridge Pennsylvania Avenue Bridge Whitehurst Freeway Wisconsin Avenue Education British International School of Washington Duke Ellington School of the Arts Georgetown Female Seminary Georgetown University Georgetown Visitation Preparatory School Holy Trinity School Parks and cemeteries Chesapeake and Ohio Canal National Historical Park Dumbarton Oaks Park Georgetown Waterfront Park Francis Scott Key Memorial Glover-Archbold Park Jesuit Community Cemetery Montrose Park Mount Zion Cemetery Oak Hill Cemetery Presbyterian Burying Ground Establishments Baked & Wired Embassy of France Embassy of Mongolia Embassy of Thailand Embassy of Ukraine Embassy of Venezuela Filomena Ristorante Four Seasons Hotel Georgetown Cupcake Georgetown Park Georgetown Visitation Monastery House of Sweden Martin's Tavern MedStar Georgetown University Hospital Potomac Boat Club Ritz-Carlton Suter's Tavern Washington Canoe Club Washington Harbour Northwest, Washington, D.C. Category Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Georgetown_Waterfront_Park&oldid=1138518114 " Categories : Georgetown (Washington, D.C.) National Park Service areas in Washington, D.C. Parks in Washington, D.C. Rock Creek Park Protected areas established in 2011 2011 establishments in Washington, D.C. Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Coordinates on Wikidata Commons category link is on Wikidata This page was last edited on 10 February 2023, at 03:18 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0 ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement 