 Greek inscriptions - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Languages Language links are at the top of the page across from the title. Search Create account Log in Personal tools Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Inscriptiones Graecae 2 Other printed collections 3 Online collections 4 Digital resources 5 See also 6 References Toggle the table of contents Toggle the table of contents Greek inscriptions 5 languages Español Italiano Norsk nynorsk Русский Українська Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia IG Dedication of Ion of Chios to Athena The Greek-language inscriptions and epigraphy are a major source for understanding of the society, language and history of ancient Greece and other Greek-speaking or Greek-controlled areas. [1] [2] Greek inscriptions may occur on stone slabs, pottery ostraca , ornaments, and range from simple names to full texts. [3] [4] Inscriptiones Graecae [ edit ] Main article: Inscriptiones Graecae The Inscriptiones Graecae (IG), Latin for Greek inscriptions , project is an academic project originally begun by the Prussian Academy of Science , and today continued by its successor organisation, the Berlin-Brandenburgische Akademie der Wissenschaften . Its aim is to collect and publish all known ancient inscriptions from the ancient world. As such it will eventually make all other previous collections redundant. It is divided by regions. I/II/III - Attica IV - Aegina, Pityonesus, Cecryphalia, the Argolid V - Laconia, Messenia and Arcadia VII - Megarid, Oropus, and Boeotia IX - Aetolia, Acarnania, West Locris and Thessaly X - Epirus, Macedonia, Thrace, Scythia, Thessalonica, Lyncestis, Heraclea, Pelagonia, Derriopus and Lychnidus XIV - Sicily-Italy Other printed collections [ edit ] Numerous other printed collections of Greek inscriptions exist. [5] The following abbreviations are as listed in the preface Epigraphical Publications to the Liddell-Scott-Jones lexicon: CGIH = Corpus der griechisch-christlichen Inschriften von Hellas: I. Die griechisch-christlichen Inschriften des Peloponnes, Nikos Athanasiou Bees, vol. i, Athens 1941. CID = Corpus des inscriptions de Delphes. I: Lois sacrées et règlements religieux, Georges Rougemont, Paris 1977; II: Les comptes du quatrième et du troisième siècle, J. Bousquet, D. Mulliez, Paris 1989. CIJud . = Corpus Inscriptionum Iudaicarum, ed. Jean-Baptiste Frey: vol. i (Europe), Rome 1936 repr. [New York 1975]; vol. ii: Asie-Afrique, Rome 1952. CISem. = Corpus Inscriptionum Semiticarum, E Renan et al., Paris 1881–1951. Inscr.Perg. = Die Inschriften von Pergamon (in Altertümer von Pergamon viii), ed. Max Fränkel , Berlin 1890–1895; 8(3) = Altertümer von Pergamon viii (3). Die Inschriften des Asklepieions, Christian Habicht (historian) , Berlin 1969. Supp.Epigr. = SEG Supplementum Epigraphicum Graecum , Hondius, Netherlands Online collections [ edit ] Over the last 20 years, a growing number of online databases, catalogues and corpora of Greek inscriptions have been created. A selection is offered below: Searchable Greek Inscriptions of the Packard Humanities Institute , including the complete Inscriptiones Graecae corpora Inscriptiones Graecae homepage , in German Attic Inscriptions Online , including English translations Inscriptions of Aphrodisias , including English translations Hellenistic Greek Inscriptions , in English translation I.Sicily , inscriptions of Sicily Monumenta Asiae Minoris Antiqua (MAMA) XI , monuments from Phrygia and Lykaonia IGCyr , Inscriptions of Greek Cyrenaica EAGLE , a portal to the inscriptions of the Ancient World, part of IDEA Some other inscriptions are found incidentally in TLG text materials are available online and in CD ROM format Perseus project Duke Data Bank of Documentary Papyri Digital resources [ edit ] Alongside the development of online collections of Greek inscriptions, several projects have created online epigraphic tools for the study of inscriptions. Epigraphy.info , collaborative environment for digital epigraphy Trismegistos , portal of papyrological and epigraphical resources LGPN , the Lexicon of Greek Personal Names EpiDoc , XML text markup for ancient documents Ubi Erat Lupa , image database on ancient stone monuments Europeana EAGLE , Europeana network of Ancient Greek and Latin Epigraphy Digital Epigraphy Toolbox , 3D digitization of inscriptions Krateros , digital repository for the collections of epigraphic squeezes GIO , translations of Ancient Greek inscriptions into Modern Greek Pythia (machine learning) , a deep learning model for the automatic restoration of Greek inscriptions See also [ edit ] Epigraphy & (Section: Greek Inscriptions ) Académie des Inscriptions et Belles-Lettres Leiden Conventions Centre for Ancient Epigraphy and Numismatics "Fanoula Papazoglou" Pythia (machine learning) EpiDoc References [ edit ] ^ Bodel, John, ed. 2001 Epigraphic evidence: Ancient history from inscriptions. London: Routledge. ^ Guarducci, Margherita. 1967–1978. Epigrafia greca. 4 vols. Rome: Istituto Poligrafico dello Stato. ^ Robert, Louis. 1970. Die Epigraphik der klassischen Welt. Bonn, Germany: Habelt. ^ Woodhead, Arthur G. 1981. The study of Greek inscriptions. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge Univ. Press. ^ Bérard, F., D. Feissel, N. Laubry, P. Petitmengin, D. Rousset, and M. Sève. 2010. Guide de l’épigraphiste: Bibliographie choisie des épigraphies antiques et médiévales. 4th ed. Paris: Éditions Rue d’Ulm. This article about the Ancient Greek language is a stub . You can help Wikipedia by expanding it . v t e Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Greek_inscriptions&oldid=1108092354 " Categories : Greek inscriptions Greek epigraphy Archaeological corpora Ancient Greek Ancient Greek language stubs Hidden category: All stub articles This page was last edited on 2 September 2022, at 13:53 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0 ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement 