 Ruby & Quentin - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Languages Language links are at the top of the page across from the title. Search Create account Log in Personal tools Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Cast 2 Plot 3 References 4 External links Toggle the table of contents Toggle the table of contents Ruby & Quentin 22 languages Беларуская Беларуская (тарашкевіца) Čeština Cymraeg Deutsch Español فارسی Français 한국어 Italiano Kreyòl ayisyen Magyar Македонски Nederlands Polski Português Русский Suomi Svenska Українська 文言 中文 Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 2003 film Ruby & Quentin Film Poster Directed by Francis Veber Written by Francis Veber (scenario, adaptation & dialogue) Serge Frydman (idea) Produced by Saïd Ben Saïd Gérard Gaultier (executive) Starring Jean Reno Gérard Depardieu Cinematography Luciano Tovoli Edited by Georges Klotz Music by Marco Prince Production companies UGC Images DD Productions EFVE Films TF1 Films Production FILMAURO Distributed by UGC Fox Distribution Release date 22 October 2003 ( 2003-10-22 ) Running time 87 minutes Country France-Italy Language French Budget $27.4 million Box office $22.3 million [1] Ruby & Quentin ( French : Tais-toi ! ( French pronunciation: ​ [tɛ twa] , Shut up! ) is a 2003 French comedy - crime caper film, directed by Francis Veber . The film became popular in China after being dubbed in Northeastern Mandarin . Cast [ edit ] Jean Reno as Ruby Gérard Depardieu as Quentin Richard Berry as Vernet André Dussollier as The psychiatrist Jean-Pierre Malo as Vogel Jean-Michel Noirey as Lambert Laurent Gamelon as Mauricet Aurélien Recoing as Rocco Vincent Moscato as Raffi Ticky Holgado as Martineau Michel Aumont as Nosberg Léonor Varela as Katia/Sandra Loïc Brabant as Jambier Arnaud Cassand as Bourgoin Edgar Givry as Vavinet Guy Delamarch as Lefevre Rebecca Potok as Madame Lefevre Jean Dell as The radiologist Guillaume de Tonquédec as The hospital's intern Adrien Saint-Joré & Johan Libéreau as Teenagers Plot [ edit ] Quentin, a dim-witted small-time thief, holds up a foreign exchange booth. Unable to get the money he wants, he asks for directions to the nearest bank. When the police are given this tip-off, Quentin runs into a cinema where Ice Age is showing. He is caught when instead of continuing to run, he sits down and enjoys the film. Ruby, a henchman of the crime lord Vogel, who has been having an affair with his boss' wife, is thrown into a jail after getting caught hiding the loot that he stole from his boss in revenge for the death of his lover. In jail Ruby refuses to eat or speak, which concerns the jail's psychiatrist but fails to impress the detective in charge of the investigation, who sees through Ruby's ruse. At the suggestion of the detective, the two criminals meet after Quentin, an intolerable extrovert who has driven mad two other inmates, is put in with him. Quentin thinks that he has struck up a one-sided friendship with Ruby after conducting an uninteresting monologue, however they are parted again after Ruby fakes suicide to get out. Quentin does the same and ends up in the bed next to Ruby in the infirmary. Ruby manages to bribe the psychiatrist (who also works for Vogel) into helping him escape the prison. Quentin, however, thwarts the escape and makes his own botched attempt at escape with help from a drunken long-time friend driving a crane. Over the period of the film Vogel's bodyguards tried to catch Ruby three times. After that they stole two cars of Vogel and his bodyguards returned them back. Once outside Ruby is unable to get rid of Quentin, and they both go through many adventures, including robbing a diminutive horse trainer's house, dressing up in Chanel , exchanging clothing with two impertinent youths, stealing a series of police and civilian cars and fixing Ruby's shoulder with a breaking chair, in pursuit of his former partners in crime. And when Quentin tried to steal a car, two policemen noticed them and Ruby was serious wounded. Sheltering in an abandoned shop, where Quentin plans to make a café business, they meet another homeless woman, who looks like Vogel's former wife. Ruby gives her some money and drops her off at a hotel to stay. After an exciting car chase where the antagonists are trapped in a traffic jam, they enter the estate of Vogel and in a shoot-out results in an incapacitated Vogel, and Quentin supposedly mortally wounded. Ruby, much to his own surprise as anyone else's, expresses his grief for Quentin, who tricks him into actually opening a café after he recovers. References [ edit ] ^ "Tais-toi (2003) - JPBox-Office" . External links [ edit ] Ruby & Quentin at IMDb Ruby & Quentin at Rotten Tomatoes Ruby & Quentin at Box Office Mojo v t e Films of Francis Veber As director The Toy (1976) Knock on Wood (1981) Les Compères (1983) Les Fugitifs (1986) Three Fugitives (1989) Out on a Limb (1992) Le Jaguar (1996) The Dinner Game (1998) The Closet (2001) Ruby & Quentin (2003) The Valet (2006) As writer only Partners (1982) Pure Luck (1991) Related Films based on works by Francis Veber Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Ruby_%26_Quentin&oldid=1145549282 " Categories : 2003 films 2000s French-language films Films directed by Francis Veber Films with screenplays by Francis Veber 2000s crime comedy films French crime comedy films 2003 comedy films 2000s French films Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Template film date with 1 release date IMDb ID same as Wikidata This page was last edited on 19 March 2023, at 19:01 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0 ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement 