 U.S. Squash - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Languages Language links are at the top of the page across from the title. Search Create account Log in Personal tools Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 History 2 Participation Toggle Participation subsection 2.1 Overall 2.2 Junior 2.3 Women 3 See also 4 References 5 External links Toggle the table of contents Toggle the table of contents U.S. Squash 2 languages Deutsch Français Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia This article relies excessively on references to primary sources . Please improve this article by adding secondary or tertiary sources . Find sources: "U.S. Squash" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( February 2010 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this template message ) US Squash Sport Squash Abbreviation USSRA Founded 1904 Regional affiliation Federation of Panamerica Location Philadelphia [1] President Kevin Klipstein CEO Kevin Klipstein Coach Ong Beng Hee Official website www .ussquash .com US Squash is the national governing body for the sport of squash in the United States . Previously called The United States Squash Racquets Association, it is headquartered in New York City and is a member of the U.S. Olympic Committee . US Squash owns and licenses the U.S. Open , the North American Open , and all other U.S. championships. In 2017, the organization held twenty-one championship events for juniors, adults, hardball and doubles. The U.S. National High School Championships, held alternatingly in the Hartford, Connecticut, and Philadelphia areas, is the largest squash tournament in the world in terms of overall number of participants; in 2017, more than 170 teams comprising 1,400 players took part. [2] The Men's National Championship (the S.L. Green) and the Women's National Championship are held every year at the National Singles. US Squash supports four national teams (Men's, Women's, Junior Men's and Junior Women's) that compete abroad in World Squash Federation and Pan American team tournaments. In 2017, the male U.S. Champion is Todd Harrity and the female U.S. Champion is Olivia Blatchford . As of 2017, the organization had 21,000 members. [3] History [ edit ] Founded in 1904 in Philadelphia , the United States Squash Racquets Association was the world's first squash organization. As the first association to define and regulate the sport, it set rules about play, the ball, and the court. In 1923, the growing organization began to hold an annual executive board meeting to discuss policies, by-laws and goals of the organization. In February 1924, an American Squash Racquets Singles Championship was held in Boston, Massachusetts, and was won on February 24 by Gerald Robarts of England, defeating William F. Harrity of Philadelphia in the final. [4] As the 1950s approached, the organization added positions to the board positions and hired full-time executives to run it; in addition, the organization opened two subdivisions to separate the players by starting both the Junior Nationals and the Senior Nationals. In 1957, US Squash incorporated as a not-for-profit organization in the state of New York . [5] By the 1970s, US Squash had helped pioneer the female surge in athletics for America. [ citation needed ] The organization had started The United States Women’s Squash Racquets Association to define and regulate the game for women the same way that the United States Squash Racquets Association did for men. The USWSRA and the USSRA merged in 1979. [5] In 1975, when Darwin P. Kingsley became the first executive director of US Squash, there were 800 members and 40 clubs; when he left in 1992, there were 10,000 members and 250 clubs. Kingsley's successor was Craig Brand, who in his 10 years on the job helped bring the internationally popular soft ball game with the hard ball game that predominated in the United States, and helped the organization join the U.S. Olympic Committee . He was followed by Palmer Page, who brought 21st-century technology to the sport. Kevin Klipstein took over Page's position in 2004. [5] In 2000, the organization founded the U.S. Squash Hall of Fame to honor the most distinguished players in every aspect of the sport, including hardball, softball, singles, doubles, men and women, masters and juniors, amateurs and professionals. Induction into the Hall of Fame is considered the highest honor in the sport of squash. The Hall is resident in Yale University's Payne Whitney Gymnasium . [6] In 2006, the United States Squash Racquets Association renamed itself US Squash and moved its headquarters to New York City under the leadership of Jeanne McWilliams Blasberg, who was also its first female chairman of the board. [7] In 2021, US Squash reestablished its headquarters in Philadelphia. [8] Participation [ edit ] Overall [ edit ] As of 2017, the United States has the fastest growing squash participation worldwide, with 101% growth between 2009 and 2014 to 1.6 million squash players. [9] Junior [ edit ] From 2007 to 2017, U.S. Junior participation grew more than fourfold. Since 2010, west coast junior tournaments have seen a 634% increase in junior tournament participation, 375% increase in the number of tournaments and a 55% increase in the average number of players per tournament. In the southeast, in 2010 there were no US Squash accredited junior tournaments. In the 2015 season there were more than eleven accredited tournaments in this area accounting for more than 500 accredited matches played. Since 2006, the U.S. Junior Open Squash Championships has increased from 271 to more than 1000 players in 2016 from more than thirty-seven countries, making it the largest individual junior squash tournament in the world. [9] Women [ edit ] US Squash organizes Women's Squash Week to bring women players together around the world. Women’s participation has doubled since 2008, now playing more than 30,000 matches each year. [9] See also [ edit ] United States Open (squash) US Pro Squash Series US Junior Open squash championship Men's National Champions (squash) Women's National Champions (squash) United States men's national squash team United States women's national squash team References [ edit ] ^ "U.S. Squash finds a new home in Philly with plans to create a public school league" . ^ High School Championships ^ History of the Organization ^ Frank Grant Menke, The Encyclopedia of Sports (1963), p. 839 ^ a b c "History | US Squash" . ^ "U.S. Squash Hall of Fame Induction Luncheon" . U.S. Open Squash . 2014-05-20 . Retrieved 2021-06-05 . ^ "US SQUASH | About" . www.ussquash.com . Retrieved 2020-01-29 . ^ "U.S. Squash finds a new home in Philly with plans to create a public school league" . ^ a b c "US SQUASH | Squash Facts" . www.ussquash.com . Retrieved 2017-05-18 . External links [ edit ] USsquash.com v t e National members of the World Squash Federation Asia (ASF) Bahrain Bangladesh Brunei China Chinese Taipei Hong Kong India Indonesia Iran Iraq Japan Jordan Kuwait Lebanon Macau Malaysia Nepal Oman Pakistan Palestine Philippines Qatar Saudi Arabia Singapore South Korea Sri Lanka Thailand Europe (ESF) Armenia Austria Belgium Croatia Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark England Estonia Finland France Germany Gibraltar Greece Hungary Iceland Ireland Isle of Man Israel Italy Latvia Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macedonia Malta Monaco Montenegro Netherlands Norway Poland Portugal Russia Scotland Serbia Slovakia Slovenia Spain Sweden Switzerland Turkey Ukraine Wales Africa (SFA) Algeria Botswana Democratic Republic of Congo Egypt Ghana Kenya Lesotho Malawi Mauritus Morocco Nigeria Namibia Somalia South Africa Sudan Tanzania Uganda Zambia Zimbabwe Oceania (OSF) Australia Cook Islands Fiji New Caledonia New Zealand Niue Norfolk Island Papua New Guinea Samoa Tahiti Tonga Vanuatu America (FPS) North America Bermuda Canada Mexico United States Central America Costa Rica El Salvador Guatemala Honduras Panama Caribbean Antigua and Barbuda Bahamas Barbados British Virgin Islands Cayman Islands Dominican Republic Jamaica Saint Lucia Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Trinidad and Tobago South America Argentina Brazil Chile Colombia Ecuador Guyana Paraguay Peru Venezuela Pinnacle Events World Championships World Teams World Juniors World Masters PSA World Series World Games v t e Sports governing bodies of the United States (USA) Summer Olympic sports Aquatics Diving Swimming Water polo Athletics Badminton Basketball Baseball Boxing Cycling Equestrian Fencing Field Hockey Gymnastics Handball Judo Rugby Union Rowing Sailing Soccer Softball Shooting Table Tennis Taekwondo Tennis Triathlon Volleyball Weightlifting Wrestling Winter Olympic sports Biathlon Bobsleigh Curling Figure skating Ice hockey Skeleton Skiing & Snowboarding Other sports American football Air sports Australian rules football Auto racing Backgammon Bandy Bowling Bridge Chess Cricket Golf Disc golf Floorball Karate Lacrosse Lifesaving Netball Orienteering Pickleball Polo Powerboating Quidditch Roller sports Rugby League Snooker Sport climbing Squash Sumo Underwater sports Water ski Wushu United States Olympic & Paralympic Committee Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=U.S._Squash&oldid=1089477093 " Categories : Sports clubs established in 1904 Squash in the United States Sports governing bodies in the United States Sports in New York City National members of the World Squash Federation 1904 establishments in the United States Hidden categories: Articles lacking reliable references from February 2010 All articles lacking reliable references All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from June 2021 This page was last edited on 24 May 2022, at 01:17 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0 ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement 