 Amit Paul - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Languages Language links are at the top of the page across from the title. Search Create account Log in Personal tools Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Early years 2 Indian Idol 3 Continuing career 4 Effect on Meghalaya 5 Famous songs 6 References Toggle the table of contents Toggle the table of contents Amit Paul 2 languages العربية मराठी Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Indian singer Not to be confused with Amit Sebastian Paul , member of A-Teens . This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page . ( Learn how and when to remove these template messages ) This biography of a living person needs additional citations for verification . Please help by adding reliable sources . Contentious material about living persons that is unsourced or poorly sourced must be removed immediately , especially if potentially libelous or harmful. Find sources: "Amit Paul" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( August 2015 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this template message ) The topic of this article may not meet Wikipedia's notability guideline for music . Please help to demonstrate the notability of the topic by citing reliable secondary sources that are independent of the topic and provide significant coverage of it beyond a mere trivial mention. If notability cannot be shown, the article is likely to be merged , redirected , or deleted . Find sources: "Amit Paul" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( August 2015 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this template message ) ( Learn how and when to remove this template message ) Amit Paul Born Shillong , Meghalaya , India Genres Pop , classical Occupation(s) Playback singer , Indian Idol season 3 runner-up Instrument(s) Vocals Years active 2007–present Musical artist Amit Paul (born in Shillong , India ) is an Indian singer. His career started by being runner up on Indian Idol season 3. [1] He has become a budding playback singer in the Hindi film industry as well as Bengali and Nepali movies. Early years [ edit ] Paul's parents are Deepak Paul and Jaya Paul. [2] They have a decades-old family garments business in Shillong which was established by his grandfather, later maintained by his father and paternal uncles. Paul completed his studies in Shillong and is an Alumni of St. Peter’s school. From an early age, he had aspired to be a playback singer, but was never formally trained. Indian Idol [ edit ] Paul participated in the third season of Indian Idol . [3] After being eliminated, he was brought back as a wild card entry. He was one of the most popular contestants and was tagged as “lover boy of India” for his soulful voice and singing. Continuing career [ edit ] After Idol , Paul reappeared on Indian television in the new game show "Ek Se Badhkar Ek " . This saw Paul paired with Rajshree Thakur as a singer-dancer combo. The pair lasted until the 9th week, when Thakur had to quit on doctor's orders. [ citation needed ] Paul also appeared on K for Kishore , a song contest in which participants must try and sing like the well known Indian singer Kishore Kumar . Paul appeared as a challenger but exited the show because of a minor illness during that time. He has performed worldwide in a number of concerts since completing Indian Idol . His overseas tours have included the US, the UK, Hong Kong, South Africa, Kenya, Ghana, Canada, Saudi Arabia, Bhutan, Israel, Singapore, Thailand, Kuwait, Nepal, Dubai, Bangladesh, Belgium, and Switzerland. Paul has begun to realize his dream to sing as a playback artist. He debuted in Luck by Chance with the soft, romantic number "Pyar ki Daastan", with Mahalaxmi Iyer as his co-singer. The song was written by the legendary lyricist Javed Akhtar. Reviews of the track were positive, and the song did well in the charts. [4] He is one of the few Indian Idol contestants to give a chartbuster song like "Pyar ki dastan". Several of his songs are under production. Alongside music, Paul has his own business in various sectors and is a socialite in the Northeast. He is an active member of various social enterprises and supports causes such as children's education, disabled children and women empowerment. He has done many charity shows to support the underprivileged at home and abroad. He has also been made the state brand ambassador for North Bengal by Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. Paul believes in peace and prosperity and continues to keep good impact on the society and encourage youngsters for unity, peace and prosperity. He also took part as a celebrity judge in the local talent contest, "Arunachal's got Talent". He was also one of the judges in Northeast Idol 2019. Effect on Meghalaya [ edit ] The populace within the state of Meghalaya has long been divided. The discord between tribal and non-tribal members of the state has resulted in harsh words between the two, as well as outbreaks of violence. Paul's success brought fame to the region, and created a sense of unity between the divide for a brief period of time where all were voting for him. His success has allowed both sides to come together and brought a sense of peace to the state. [5] The Meghalaya Government made him the state's Brand Ambassador of Peace, Communal Harmony and Excellence. [6] Famous songs [ edit ] "Pyaar Ki Dastaan" ( Luck By Chance ) References [ edit ] ^ Indian Idol Page Archived 7 February 2009 at the Wayback Machine ^ CNN-IBN Indian of The Year 2007 Archived 17 January 2008 at the Wayback Machine ^ Here everyone is Ek Se Badhkar Ek, says Amit Paul ^ Amit Paul's Pyaar Ki Dastaan ^ MEGHALAYA IDOL ^ Indian Express - Shillong hopes Amit Paul will be its ticket to progress Authority control : Artists MusicBrainz Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Amit_Paul&oldid=1138063701 " Categories : Living people Indian male singers Indian Idol participants Nepali-language singers from India Bollywood playback singers People from Shillong Hidden categories: Webarchive template wayback links Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata BLP articles lacking sources from August 2015 All BLP articles lacking sources Articles with topics of unclear notability from August 2015 All articles with topics of unclear notability Music articles with topics of unclear notability Articles with multiple maintenance issues Use Indian English from December 2013 All Wikipedia articles written in Indian English Use dmy dates from December 2013 Short description is different from Wikidata Articles with hCards All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from November 2012 Articles with MusicBrainz identifiers Year of birth missing (living people) This page was last edited on 7 February 2023, at 21:05 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0 ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement 