 Gold Star Mothers National Monument - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Languages Language links are at the top of the page across from the title. Search Create account Log in Personal tools Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 References 2 External links Toggle the table of contents Toggle the table of contents Gold Star Mothers National Monument Add languages Add links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia The Gold Star Mothers National Monument was a proposed national memorial to honor mothers whose children died in defense of the United States. The name of the memorial refers to the Gold Star Mothers Club , formed in the aftermath of World War I. A mother whose child had died in honorable military service while serving during the time of war was permitted to hang in her window a service flag with a gold star emblazoned on it. The United States Congress authorized the Gold Star Mothers National Monument Foundation on January 2, 2013, in Section 2859 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 ( Pub. L. 112–239 (text) (PDF) ). [1] The foundation was authorized to raise private funds to construct a memorial on federal land in Washington, D.C. Once established, the memorial would be turned over to the federal government. Congress permitted the memorial to be constructed within Area 1, the central core of the District of Columbia centered on the National Mall , or Area II (adjacent to the National Mall and nearby federal lands). [1] Under the rules established by the Commemorative Works Clarification and Revision Act of 2003 (CWCRA), the memorial foundation had seven years (until January 2, 2020) to raise the necessary funds to build the memorial, and to obtain siting, design, and other approvals from the National Capital Memorial Advisory Commission (NCMAC), United States Commission of Fine Arts , and National Capital Planning Commission . [2] Although a bill ( H.R. 2819 ) was introduced to extend authorization to 2024, it did not advance and permission to build the memorial lapsed. In December 2013, the foundation laid out its goals for a national monument. They included: [3] Expressing the gratitude of the nation to Gold Star mothers and families; Recognizing the loss incurred by Gold Star mothers and families; Giving Gold Star mothers and families a place to reflect, contemplate, and meditate on their loss; Giving Gold Star mothers and families a place to gather; Commemorating the national service that the Gold Star Mothers Club has provided to the nation; and Providing a place for the public to acknowledge the sacrifices of Gold Star mothers and families, and to commemorative this sacrifice. The foundation began analyzing sites suggested by the NCMAC in 2013. It rejected Freedom Plaza , the belvedere western terminus of Constitution Avenue on the shores of the Potomac River, and sites on Memorial Drive close to the Arlington National Cemetery Administration Building. On December 12, 2013, it asked the NCMAC to approve a site on Memorial Drive between the south main gate of Arlington National Cemetery and the Armored Forces Memorial. [3] References [ edit ] ^ a b "Memorial Legislation." National Capital Memorial Advisory Commission. June 22, 2013. Archived April 7, 2014, at the Wayback Machine Accessed 2014-04-04. ^ "Authorized Memorials - Status of Authorities." National Capital Memorial Advisory Commission. April 15, 2013. Archived April 7, 2014, at the Wayback Machine Accessed 2014-04-04. ^ a b A Commemorative Work for Gold Star Mothers: Site Selection Analysis (PDF) . National Capital Memorial Advisory Commission . December 12, 2013. pp. 4–5 . Retrieved April 5, 2014 . External links [ edit ] Pub. L. 112–239 (text) (PDF) : Public Law 112-239, establishing the memorial Gold Star Mothers National Monument Foundation v t e Landmarks of Washington, D.C. Memorials Adams African American Civil War American Veterans Disabled for Life Belmont–Paul Women's Equality National Monument Mary McLeod Bethune Boy Scout James Buchanan John Carroll D.C. War Albert Einstein Emancipation Dwight D. Eisenhower John Ericsson David Farragut First Division James A. Garfield Kahlil Gibran Samuel Gompers Ulysses S. Grant Holocaust Museum Holodomor Genocide Andrew Jackson Japanese American Patriotism During World War II Jefferson Memorial Lyndon Baines Johnson Grove John Paul Jones Marquis de Lafayette Law Enforcement Officers Lincoln Memorial statue Martin Luther King, Jr. Korean War Veterans George Mason George Meade Peter Muhlenberg National Statuary Hall Collection Navy – Merchant Marine Nuns of the Battlefield Peace Monument John J. Pershing Second Division Signers of the Declaration of Independence The Extra Mile The Three Soldiers Jean de Rochambeau Franklin Delano Roosevelt Theodore Roosevelt Island Taras Shevchenko Statues of the Liberators Oscar Straus Robert A. Taft Titanic United States Navy Victims of Communism Vietnam Veterans Vietnam Women's Washington Monument Daniel Webster World War I World War II Rainbow Pool Other Basilica of the Immaculate Conception Blair House Capitol Reflecting Pool Congressional Cemetery Frederick Douglass National Historic Site Exorcist steps Ford's Theatre Petersen House Healy Hall Islamic Center Jefferson Pier John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts Library of Congress Jefferson Adams Madison National Arboretum National Capitol Columns National Building Museum National Gallery of Art Lincoln's Cottage at Soldiers' Home Lincoln Memorial Reflecting Pool National Archives National Cathedral National Mall Octagon House Old Post Office Old Stone House Smithsonian Institution St. John's Episcopal Church The Arts of War and The Arts of Peace Tidal Basin Treasury Building Freedman's Bank Building Tudor Place Union Station United States Capitol Capitol Hill United States Supreme Court Building Watergate complex White House Willard Hotel Parks and plazas Constitution Gardens Dupont Circle East Potomac Park Farragut Square Freedom Plaza Lafayette Square L'Enfant Plaza Meridian Hill Park National Arboretum Pershing Park Rock Creek Park The Ellipse Union Square United States Botanic Garden West Potomac Park Boundaries Anacostia River Arlington Memorial Bridge Boundary markers of the original District of Columbia Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Constitution Avenue Francis Scott Key Bridge Pennsylvania Avenue Potomac River Zero Milestone Nearby landmarks Arlington National Cemetery Tomb of the Unknown Soldier John F. Kennedy gravesite Arlington House Marine Corps War Memorial Netherlands Carillon Pentagon Pentagon Memorial United States Air Force Memorial Women in Military Service for America Memorial Planned Adams Memorial National Desert Storm and Desert Shield Memorial Peace Corps Commemorative Related National Capital Memorial Advisory Commission National Mall and Memorial Parks List of National Historic Landmarks in Washington, D.C. National Register of Historic Places in Washington, D.C. Public art in Washington, D.C. ( Outdoor sculpture , American Revolution Statuary , Civil War Monuments , commemorating African-Americans ) Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Gold_Star_Mothers_National_Monument&oldid=1082331002 " Category : Proposed monuments and memorials in the United States Hidden category: Webarchive template wayback links This page was last edited on 12 April 2022, at 15:41 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0 ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement 