 Louis Arthur Ducos du Hauron - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Languages Language links are at the top of the page across from the title. Search Create account Log in Personal tools Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Personal life 2 Photography 3 Gallery 4 References 5 Further reading 6 External links Toggle the table of contents Toggle the table of contents Louis Arthur Ducos du Hauron 12 languages Català Čeština Deutsch Español Esperanto Français Italiano مصرى Nederlands Occitan Português Русский Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Louis Ducos du Hauron, photographed on an Autochrome plate in 1910. The Lumière Brothers ' Autochrome process was based on one of the several color photography methods he patented in 1868. Louis Arthur Ducos du Hauron (8 December 1837 – 31 August 1920) was a French pioneer of color photography . Personal life [ edit ] He was born in Langon , Gironde and died in Agen . Photography [ edit ] After writing an unpublished paper setting forth his basic concepts in 1862, he worked on developing practical processes for color photography on the three-color principle, using both additive and subtractive methods. [1] [2] [3] In 1868 he patented his ideas (French Patent No. 83061) and in 1869 he published them in Les couleurs en photographie, solution du problème . The discovery of dye sensitization by Hermann Wilhelm Vogel in 1873 greatly facilitated the initial three-color analysis on which all of Ducos de Hauron's methods depended. [4] The most widely reproduced of his surviving color photographs is the View of Agen , an 1877 image of a landscape in southern France, printed by the subtractive assembly method he pioneered. Several different photographs of the view from his attic window, one dated 1874, also survive, as do later views taken in Algeria, still life subjects, reproductions of paintings and art prints, and at least two portraits of uncertain date. In 1891, he introduced the anaglyph stereoscopic print, the "red and blue glasses" type of 3-D print. Although others had earlier applied the same principle to drawings or used it to project images onto a screen, he was the first to reproduce stereoscopic photographs in the convenient form of anaglyph prints on paper. [5] Gallery [ edit ] Color print made from three direct photograms , 1869 or 1870 View of Agen , France , showing the St. Caprais cathedral, 1877. Heliochrome (multilayer dichromated pigmented gelatin process). George Eastman House View of Agen , 1874–1876. Mounted birds, 1879 References [ edit ] ^ "Lumière Jubilee". Time . 18 November 1935. The idea was patented as early as 1864 [sic—actually 1868] by a now forgotten Frenchman named Louis Arthur Ducos du Hauron. ^ Solbert, Oscar N.; Beaumont, Newhall; Card, James G., eds. (April 1952). "Forgotten Pioneers IV: Louis Ducos Du Hauron (1837–1920)" (PDF) . Image, Journal of Photography of George Eastman House . Rochester, N.Y.: International Museum of Photography at George Eastman House Inc. 1 (6): 2. Archived from the original (PDF) on 4 March 2016 . Retrieved 21 June 2014 . ^ Dr. Carl Finch (1920). "Louis Arthur Ducos du Hauron, In Memoriam" . Photo-Era, The American Journal of Photography . Vol. 45. New England Photo Era Publishing Company. pp. 281–282. ^ Newhall, Beaumont (May 1954). "An 1877 Color Photograph" (PDF) . Image, Journal of Photography of George Eastman House . Rochester, N.Y.: International Museum of Photography at George Eastman House Inc. III (5): 33–34. Archived from the original (PDF) on 20 July 2014 . Retrieved 15 July 2014 . Prior to Vogel's discovery, Ducos du Hauron photographed the green and orange-red-filtered components by making use of a color sensitization phenomenon discovered by Edmond Becquerel in 1840, but very long exposures in the camera were required. ^ " A History of Photography, by Robert Leggat: ANAGLYPHS " Further reading [ edit ] Coe, Brian (1978). Colour Photography: The First Hundred Years, 1840–1940 . London: Ash & Grant. ISBN 978-0-904069-24-2 . External links [ edit ] Media related to Louis Ducos du Hauron at Wikimedia Commons v t e 19th-century French photographers Antoine Samuel Adam-Salomon Olympe Aguado Édouard Baldus Arthur Batut Hippolyte Bayard Auguste Belloc Auguste-Rosalie Bisson Louis-Auguste Bisson Louis Désiré Blanquart-Evrard Félix Bonfils Bruno Braquehais Adolphe Braun Étienne Carjat Antoine Claudet Auguste Hippolyte Collard Louis Daguerre Jules David André-Adolphe-Eugène Disdéri Maxime Du Camp Louis Arthur Ducos du Hauron Jean Louis Marie Eugène Durieu Joseph-Philibert Girault de Prangey Jean-Baptiste-Louis Gros Gustave Le Gray Henri Le Secq Gabriel Lippmann Étienne-Jules Marey Charles Marville Séraphin-Médéric Mieusement Félix-Jacques Moulin Nadar Charles Nègre Nicéphore Niépce Pierre Petit Alphonse Louis Poitevin Louis Rousselet Camille Silvy Eugène Trutat Julien Vallou de Villeneuve Horace Vernet Authority control International VIAF National France BnF data Germany United States Artists Scientific illustrators Photographers' Identities RKD Artists ULAN Other SNAC This article about a French photographer is a stub . You can help Wikipedia by expanding it . v t e Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Louis_Arthur_Ducos_du_Hauron&oldid=1067613708 " Categories : 1837 births 1920 deaths Color scientists Pioneers of photography 19th-century French photographers French photographer stubs Hidden categories: Commons category link is on Wikidata Articles with VIAF identifiers Articles with BNF identifiers Articles with BNFdata identifiers Articles with GND identifiers Articles with LCCN identifiers Articles with DSI identifiers Articles with PIC identifiers Articles with RKDartists identifiers Articles with ULAN identifiers Articles with SNAC-ID identifiers All stub articles This page was last edited on 24 January 2022, at 09:44 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0 ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement 