 Kurt Sonnenfeld - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Languages Language links are at the top of the page across from the title. Search Create account Log in Personal tools Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Books 2 References Toggle the table of contents Toggle the table of contents Kurt Sonnenfeld 1 language Български Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia American photographer This article may need to be rewritten to comply with Wikipedia's quality standards . You can help . The talk page may contain suggestions. ( November 2017 ) Kurt Sonnenfeld Born ( 1962-12-18 ) December 18, 1962 (age 60) Occupation Photographer/Videographer/Writer Citizenship United States Genre Non-fiction Kurt Sonnenfeld (born December 18, 1962) is an American granted political asylum in Argentina after convincing former President of Argentina Fernando de la Rúa [ citation needed ] and other high-ranking officials of the conspiracy theory that there had to have been foreknowledge of the 9/11 attacks because, among other things, the massive gold vaults at World Trade Center 6 had already been opened and emptied of their contents before the attack. Sonnenfeld had been employed as a videographer for the U.S. Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and had unusual authority to document the rubble scene at the World Trade Center site immediately after the September 11 attacks in New York in 2001. [1] On New Year's Eve 2001, at his Colorado home, Sonnenfeld's wife Nancy died of a point-blank gunshot to the head, and Sonnenfeld was arrested for her murder. In 2002, the murder charges were dropped for lack of evidence, but the prosecutor reserved the right to refile the charges. Sonnenfeld departed for Argentina soon thereafter, had his 9/11 videos sent to Argentina along with his personal belongings, remarried to an Argentine and had children. After a voluntary visit to the US embassy in Buenos Aires to secure a visa for his new wife, the US federal government made the first of numerous attempts to extradite him back to the US for the 2001 murder of his wife Nancy, notwithstanding the Colorado court's decision not to prosecute him for the murder. The Argentine government cited its opposition to the death penalty in its denial of the extradition requests. Sonnenfeld insists that the US government is using the death of his wife Nancy to get at him for not handing over all the videos, which he has stated prove that the official 9/11 narrative of a surprise attack is false. [ citation needed ] Books [ edit ] On May 8, 2009, Kurt Sonnenfeld published El Perseguido ("The Pursued"). In November 2012, New Horizon Press published, "The Spin Doctor: Hero or Cold-Blooded Killer?," [2] by Denver Post Staff Writer Kirk Mitchell, which disputes Sonnenfeld's claims about the 9/11 terrorist attack on the World Trade Center. [3] Nancy Sonnenfeld died from a gunshot wound to the head on January 1, 2002. Police suspected Kurt Sonnenfeld of her murder and arrested him. His fingerprints were not on the gun found at the scene and his gunpowder residue tests were negative. Gunpowder residue was found on his wife's hand and her fingerprints were found on the magazine. [4] A note in Nancy's handwriting was found by investigators. Prosecutors dropped the case in June 2002 for lack of evidence but maintained the right to refile. The renewed interest by prosecutors in Colorado was premised on alleged confessions Sonnenfeld made to two cellmates while he was in jail awaiting trial. [5] In 2002, after prosecutors in the office of former Denver District Attorney Bill Ritter dismissed the charges due to insufficient evidence, Sonnenfeld visited Argentina and married Paula Duran. The US made an extradition request and Sonnenfeld was imprisoned for seven months in the Villa Devoto prison , until an Argentine federal judge rejected the U.S. extradition request because Sonnenfeld faced the death penalty if convicted in the U.S., as Argentina does not recognize the death penalty. [6] His testimony was requested by 9/11 families. [7] He and his wife testified to the Argentine Congress about his videos. [8] Initially, the Argentine court refused the extradition request, saying they had not received sufficient assurances from Colorado that Sonnenfeld would not be executed. Colorado assured Argentina that it would not seek the death penalty. [9] On January 2, 2015, the Argentine Supreme Court announced its decision to extradite Sonnenfeld to the United States and on September 16, 2015, the Court approved the extradition. [10] However, on her last day in office in 2015, Argentine president Cristina Kirchner reversed the Argentine Supreme Court decision and granted Sonnenfeld permanent political asylum. [11] References [ edit ] ^ Hedrick, Michael (November 28, 2001). "Capturing History at Ground Zero" . TV Technology . Archived from the original on 2010-09-29 . Retrieved 2010-08-31 . ^ "The Spin Doctor: Hero or Cold-Blooded Killer?" . New Horizon Press . Retrieved 2015-01-17 . ^ "Hiding behind the truther" . New York Post . Retrieved 2015-01-17 . ^ Fugitive unlikely to return from Argentina to Denver for murder trial - The Denver Post ^ Lindsay, Sue (May 25, 2007). "Claims of 9/11 conspiracy have suspect running scared" . Rocky Mountain News . Archived from the original on 25 April 2009 . Retrieved 2015-11-21 . ^ Argentine court OKs extradition of man facing Denver murder charge - The Denver Post ^ "Kurt Sonnenfeld" . Parati . September 2009 . Retrieved 2017-03-23 . ^ "Kurt Sonnenfeld, testigo del 11-S y perseguido político por USA, expuso en el Congreso de la Nación" . El Perseguido . 2012-07-05 . Retrieved 2017-03-23 . ^ Fugitive unlikely to return from Argentina to Denver for murder trial - The Denver Post ^ Argentina Agrees to Extradite American Who Sought Asylum - The New York Times ^ Hughes, Evans (2016-06-28). "The Fugitive, His Dead Wife, and the 9/11 Conspiracy Theory That Explains Everything" . GQ . Retrieved 2017-03-23 . Authority control International FAST ISNI VIAF WorldCat National United States Artists Photographers' Identities Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Kurt_Sonnenfeld&oldid=1121151157 " Categories : 1962 births American conspiracy theorists American photographers Living people 9/11 conspiracy theorists Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Wikipedia articles needing rewrite from November 2017 All articles needing rewrite All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from August 2021 Articles with unsourced statements from November 2019 Articles containing Spanish-language text Articles with FAST identifiers Articles with ISNI identifiers Articles with VIAF identifiers Articles with WorldCat identifiers Articles with LCCN identifiers Articles with PIC identifiers This page was last edited on 10 November 2022, at 19:48 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0 ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement 