 Mahdi al-Harati - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Languages Language links are at the top of the page across from the title. Search Create account Log in Personal tools Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Accusations of Terrorism related Activity 2 References Toggle the table of contents Toggle the table of contents Mahdi al-Harati 7 languages العربية Deutsch Español Français مصرى Polski Türkçe Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Mahdi al-Harati Mahdi Al-Harati in September 2011, after the Battle of Tripoli Mayor of Tripoli [1] In office June 2014 – 20 August 2015 [2] Preceded by Sadat Al Badri Succeeded by Abdul-Rahman Al-Ghillai (acting) Personal details Born c. 1973 (age 49–50) Tripoli, Libya [3] Military service Allegiance National Transitional Council (2011) Syrian National Council (2012) Branch/service National Liberation Army Rank Commander/Colonel Commands Tripoli Brigade [3] Liwaa al-Umma Conflicts Libyan Civil War Syrian Civil War Mahdi al-Harati (born c. 1973) is an Irish-Libyan politician and former co-commander of the Tripoli Brigade during the Libyan Civil War . [3] He was also the commander of Liwaa Al-Umma , a militant group fighting against the Syrian government in the Syrian civil war . [4] Before the Libyan civil war he was an Arabic teacher in Dublin , where he lived with his Irish-born wife and family. [5] He was described by Volkskrant , a Dutch daily newspaper, as being a face of the Battle of Tripoli and one of the most important rebel commanders of the Libyan civil war. [6] The Sunday Times , a British newspaper, offered a first-hand account of Al-Mahdi's advance on Tripoli and his men's assault on Gaddafi's former residence, Bab Al-Azizia . [7] He was appointed second in command of the newly formed Tripoli Military Council . On 11 October 2011, Al-Harati resigned as deputy head of the Tripoli Military Council, amid tensions over security in the capital. According to the Irish Times , while Al-Harati's associates in Tripoli assured that the resignation was for "personal reasons", a senior NTC official quoted by CNN said that the resignation was because of "differences with the National Transitional Council on the planning of the security of Tripoli". Fathi Al-Wersali, a member of the Tripoli Military Council, stated that Al-Harati would continue as commander of the Tripoli brigade. [8] Following his involvement in the Libyan civil war al-Harati went on a fact-finding mission to Syria where, following discussions with members of the Syrian opposition, he decided to form the militant group Liwaa Al-Umma . After six months leading Liwaa Al-Umma, Al-Harati left the brigade in September 2012 [4] and handed over its command to the Free Syrian Army . [9] In 2014, Al-Harati was elected mayor of Libya's capital city of Tripoli . [1] On 27 February 2017, Al-Harati was the victim of a sectarian attack in which he was arrested in Malta along with two men who attacked him. [10] Accusations of Terrorism related Activity [ edit ] Al Harati was placed on a ban list [11] [12] [13] by, UAE, Bahrain, Saudi Arabia, Egypt, and other countries for links to supporting Terrorism [14] and Al Nusra front in Syria and for Terrorism related activities with Links to Qatari sponsorship. The ban list ensued the 2017 Qatar diplomatic crisis which a number of nations cut ties with Qatar for its alleged "financial support of international terrorism". References [ edit ] ^ a b "Irish-Libyan elected mayor of Tripoli" . The Irish Times . ^ "Central Tripoli mayor dismissed over failure to provide proper services | the Libya Observer" . ^ a b c "Irish Libyans join rebels trying to oust Gadafy" . Irish Times . 13 August 2011 . Retrieved 24 August 2011 . ^ a b "الحارثي آمر "لواء الأمة": 99% من المقاتلين معي سوريون, أخبــــــار" . Aawsat.com. Archived from the original on 2013-11-05 . Retrieved 2013-12-07 . ^ "Irish Libyan Mahdi al-Harati leads the overthrow of Colonel Gadafy" . Irish Central . 29 August 2011 . Retrieved 29 July 2012 . ^ Stieven Ramdharie (2011-08-15). "Wie zijn de Tripoli Brigade precies? - De opstand in Libië - VK" . Volkskrant.nl . Retrieved 2013-12-07 . ^ Post (6 January 2011). "The Sunday Times" . The Sunday Times. Archived from the original on November 11, 2013 . Retrieved 19 September 2011 . ^ Fitzgerald, Mary (11 October 2011). "Libyan-Irish commander resigns as deputy head of Tripoli military council" . Irish Times . Retrieved 11 November 2011 . ^ "Rebel army moves command centre inside Syria to organise fractured forces" . The Irish Times . Archived from the original on September 26, 2012 . Retrieved October 6, 2012 . ^ "Former Tripoli Mayor Al-Harati arrested in Malta over knife attack" . Libyan Express. 2017-01-28. ^ "Arab powers list 59 individuals as Qatar-linked terrorism supporters" . ^ "Saudi-led group blacklists 18 individuals, groups | GCC News | al Jazeera" . ^ "Arab nations list 59 individuals, 12 entities on Qatar-linked terror list" . ^ Vella, Mathew. "Former Tripoli mayor Al Harati in Saudi list of Qatar-backed terror sponsors" . Malta Today . Malta Today . Retrieved 24 November 2017 . v t e First Libyan Civil War Part of the Arab Spring Timeline 15 February–18 March 19 March–31 May June–15 August 16 August–23 October Forces Opposition National Liberation Army Free Libyan Air Force NCLO Armed Forces of the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya Libyan Army Libyan Air Force Libyan Navy Revolutionary Guard Corps Battles Cyrenaica Battle of Bayda First Battle of Benghazi First Battle of Brega Battle of Ra's Lanuf Battle of Bin Jawad Second Battle of Brega Battle of Ajdabiya Second Battle of Benghazi First Gulf of Sidra offensive Third Battle of Brega Battle of Brega–Ajdabiya road Cyrenaica campaign Fourth Battle of Brega Ra's Lanuf raid Fezzan Sabha clashes Fezzan campaign Battle of Sabha Ghadames raid Tripolitania First Tripoli clashes Battle of Misrata First Battle of Zawiya Nafusa Mountain Campaign Battle of Wazzin Battle of Gharyan Battle of the Misrata frontline Zliten uprising Battle of Zliten Battle of Tawergha Zawiya skirmish Msallata clashes Rebel coastal offensive Second Battle of Zawiya Ras Ajdir clashes Battle of Tripoli Second Gulf of Sidra offensive Battle of Sirte Battle of Bani Walid Second Tripoli clashes NATO operations Operation Ellamy Opération Harmattan Operation Mobile Operation Odyssey Dawn Operation Unified Protector People Anti-Gaddafi Mustafa Abdul Jalil Mahmoud Jibril Abdul Fatah Younis Khalifa Haftar Abdelhakim Belhadj Ali al-Sallabi Abdul Hafiz Ghoga Suleiman Mahmoud Omar El-Hariri Mohammed Ali Madani Mustafa Bin Dardef Hamid Hassy Daou al-Salhine al-Jadak Jalal al-Digheily Ali Tarhouni Abdel Moneim al-Houni Ali Zeidan Abdurrahim El-Keib Osama al-Juwaili Ahmed al-Senussi Hussein Darbouk Fathi Terbil Ali Attalah Obeidi Mahdi al-Harati Khalid Shahmah Yousef Mangoush Abu Oweis Abdullah Naker Ismail al-Salabi Seham Sergiwa Fathi Bashagha Mustafa A. G. Abushagur Ahmed Omar Bani Al-Mahdi Al-Barghathi Salwa Bughaighis Abdel-Hakim al-Hasidi Kais al-Hilali Ali Abd-al-Aziz al-Isawi Mohammed Magariaf Mohammed Najm Mehdi Mohammed Zeyo Mahmoud al-Werfalli Pro-Gaddafi Muammar Gaddafi Abu-Bakr Yunis Jabr Saif al-Islam Gaddafi Khamis Gaddafi Mutassim Gaddafi Al-Saadi Gaddafi Ayesha Gaddafi Abdullah Senussi Ali Sharif al-Rifi Moussa Ibrahim Abuzed Omar Dorda Baghdadi Mahmudi Mansour Dhao Saif al-Arab Gaddafi Ahmed al-Gaddafi al-Qahsi Mohammed Abdullah al-Senussi Bashir Saleh Bashir Ahmed Gaddaf al-Dam Abdel Rahman Abdel Hamid Tohami Khaled Ali Kanna Khweldi Hameidi Muftah Anaqrat Hasan al-Kabir al-Gaddafi Mohamed Gayth Massoud Abdelhafid Mahdi al-Arabi Huda Ben Amer Hala Misrati Safia Farkash Abdul Ati al-Obeidi Mohamed Abu al-Qasim al-Zwai Salih Rajab al-Mismari Abdul Majid al-Qa′ud Tayeb El-Safi Bashir Saghir Hawadi Abdulqadir al-Baghdadi Mustafa Kharoubi NATO James G. Stavridis Charles Bouchard Ralph Jodice Rinaldo Veri J. Christopher Stevens Others Moussa Koussa Shukri Ghanem Abdel Rahman Shalgham Abdessalam Jalloud Ali Treki Imbarek Shamekh Nuri al-Mismari Mohammed Nabbous Iman al-Obeidi Prince Mohammed El Senussi Prince Idris bin Abdullah al-Senussi Hussein Sadiq al Musrati Mustafa Ben Halim Ihab Al-Mismari Places, buildings and structures Abu Salim prison Bab al-Azizia Fist Crushing a U.S. Fighter Plane Sculpture Giuliana Bridge Green Square/Martyrs' Square Maydan al Shajara Mitiga International Airport People's Hall, Tripoli Impact Casualties Domestic responses Human rights violations Rape allegations Humanitarian situation Refugees International reactions International reactions to military intervention Protests against military intervention U.S. reactions to military intervention International reactions to Gaddafi's death Factional violence in Libya 2012 Benghazi attack 2014–2020 Civil War Timeline Manchester Arena bombing Afriqiyah Airways Flight 209 Other Belarus in Libyan conflict Democratic Party (Libya) Libyan Freedom and Democracy Campaign Media National Transitional Council Topple the Tyrants United Nations General Assembly Resolution 65/265 United Nations Security Council Resolution 1970 United Nations Security Council Resolution 1973 United Nations Security Council Resolution 2009 United Nations Security Council Resolution 2016 Voice of Free Libya Zenga Zenga Italics denote operations or battles related to the military intervention in Libya Category Commons Wikinews Wikiquotes Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Mahdi_al-Harati&oldid=1147354394 " Categories : Living people Libyan colonels National Liberation Army (Libya) Irish Sunnis People of the First Libyan Civil War People of the Syrian civil war Hidden categories: Year of birth uncertain Date of birth missing (living people) Year of birth missing (living people) This page was last edited on 30 March 2023, at 11:53 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0 ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement 