 Gabsheim - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Languages Language links are at the top of the page across from the title. Search Create account Log in Personal tools Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Geography Toggle Geography subsection 1.1 Location 1.2 Neighbouring municipalities 2 History 3 Politics Toggle Politics subsection 3.1 Municipal council 3.2 Mayor 3.3 Coat of arms 4 Culture and sightseeing Toggle Culture and sightseeing subsection 4.1 Buildings 5 Further reading 6 References 7 External links Toggle the table of contents Toggle the table of contents Gabsheim 28 languages Bân-lâm-gú Cebuano Deutsch Español Esperanto Euskara فارسی Français Italiano Kurdî Ladin Magyar Bahasa Melayu Nederlands Нохчийн Oʻzbekcha / ўзбекча Polski Português Română Русский Српски / srpski Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски Svenska Татарча / tatarça Українська Tiếng Việt Winaray 中文 Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Municipality in Rhineland-Palatinate, Germany Gabsheim Municipality Coat of arms Location of Gabsheim within Alzey-Worms district Gabsheim Show map of Germany Gabsheim Show map of Rhineland-Palatinate Coordinates: 49°49′40″N 8°10′34″E ﻿ / ﻿ 49.82778°N 8.17611°E ﻿ / 49.82778; 8.17611 Coordinates : 49°49′40″N 8°10′34″E ﻿ / ﻿ 49.82778°N 8.17611°E ﻿ / 49.82778; 8.17611 Country Germany State Rhineland-Palatinate District Alzey-Worms Municipal assoc. Wörrstadt Government • Mayor (2019–24) Heribert Müller [1] ( CDU ) Area • Total 8.10 km 2 (3.13 sq mi) Elevation 172 m (564 ft) Population (2021-12-31) [2] • Total 727 • Density 90/km 2 (230/sq mi) Time zone UTC+01:00 ( CET ) • Summer ( DST ) UTC+02:00 ( CEST ) Postal codes 55288 Dialling codes 06732 Vehicle registration AZ Website www.gabsheim.de Gabsheim is an Ortsgemeinde – a municipality belonging to a Verbandsgemeinde , a kind of collective municipality – in the Alzey-Worms district in Rhineland-Palatinate , Germany . It belongs to the Verbandsgemeinde of Wörrstadt , whose seat is in the like-named municipality . Geography [ edit ] Location [ edit ] The municipality lies in Rhenish Hesse , in Germany's biggest wine region . Indeed, Gabsheim is Rhenish Hesse's geographical centre. The nearest towns are Wörrstadt , roughly 5 km to the west, and the district seat, Alzey , roughly 15 km to the southwest. The state capital, Mainz , 30 km away, is easily reached over the Autobahn A 63 . Neighbouring municipalities [ edit ] Gabsheim's neighbours are Bechtolsheim , Biebelnheim , Schornsheim , Undenheim and Wörrstadt . History [ edit ] In the Middle Ages , Gabsheim was called Geispisheim (Geispitzheim); among many other spellings found in documents are also Geispodisheim (Geisbodesheim) (1250) and Gespesheim (1484). All forms, however, go back etymologically to the placename Gäu-Spießheim . Over time, the pronunciation of Gespesheim shifted to Gabsheim . Since the village is overwhelmingly Catholic , it is also sometimes known in the local speech as Gottes Gahbsem (the first word meaning “God’s”). The “fortified place in Geisbodesheim near the church” mentioned in 1250 gives clues to a permanent living place or perhaps a small castle, which would have been the von Geispitzheim noble family's ancestral seat. As vassals of the Feudal Lords of Bolanden, further becoming fiefholders of the Counts of Veldenz beginning in the 14th century, the Knights of Geispitzheim (also called the Knights of Geisbodesheim) were mentioned as the Burgmannen at Odernheim am Glan (1190), at the Moschellandsburg (castle) near Obermoschel (1377, 1421, 1431), at Burg Treuenfels (castle) near Altenbamberg (1392), at Armsheim (14th century) and in neighbouring Bechtolsheim (until the early 16th century). The inscriptions from nine preserved gravestones from the 14th and 15th centuries clearly document that the Knights of Geispolzheim had their family burial ground near Saint Alban's Church, not far from their Gabsheim ancestral seat. Noteworthy, besides those things bearing witness to the Gothic epoch, is the masterfully crafted Baroque stone statue of Saint Alban . Politics [ edit ] Municipal council [ edit ] The council is made up of 12 council members, who were elected at the municipal election held on 7 June 2009, and the honorary mayor as chairman. The municipal election held on 7 June 2009 yielded the following results: [3] SPD CDU FWG Total 2009 1 8 3 12 seats 2004 1 7 4 12 seats Mayor [ edit ] Heribert Müller (CDU) was elected mayor in May 2019. [1] He succeeded Christian Geier (CDU), who was in office since 2014. Coat of arms [ edit ] The German blazon reads: Von Silber und Rot geteilt, oben drei blaue Lilien nebeneinander, unten ein liegendes silbernes Spatenblatt. In English heraldic language, the municipality's arms might be described thus: Per fess argent three fleurs-de-lis in fess azure and gules a spade blade fesswise sinister of the first. Gabsheim's arms as displayed and described herein go back to a court seal that was being used as early as 1507. While the spade blade is believed to have been a municipal symbol, the lilies refer to the Chamberlains of Dalberg , who were the lords until the late 18th century. The field tinctures argent and gules (silver and red) are an historical link to the former Archbishopric of Mainz , to which – like all Rhenish-Hessian places – Gabsheim also belonged. Culture and sightseeing [ edit ] Buildings [ edit ] The Catholic parish church in Gabsheim is among Rhenish Hesse ’s oldest and biggest churches and given its commanding location above the village it is a prominent landmark for the whole area. The early mediaeval church was acknowledged in 1164 by Pope Lucius III as a holding of St. Alban's Abbey, Mainz . Even today, the church is still consecrated to Saint Alban of Mainz . The forerunner building, mentioned in 1164, gave way towards the late 15th century to a newer, bigger building in the Gothic style. The new church’s nave and tower must have been built at roughly the same time as the church in Bechtolsheim for both churches bear the same mason’s hallmark, “-L”. In Gabsheim, this can be seen chiselled on both the bell tower's doorframe and on the church portal (as confirmed by an entry in the Speyer state archive, the church in Bechtolsheim was built between 1482 and 1487). Historically and stylistically, the church would seem to be the work of a member of the “Meisenheim School”, but whether the designer actually was Philipp von Gmünd cannot be established. [4] A new expansion of the Gabsheim parish church was dedicated in 1768. Nevertheless, the whole building, including the tower, retained its Gothic character. This is shown on the outside foremost by the mighty chancel with its buttresses . Inside, the chancel likewise forms the architectural highlight with its fine rib vaults adorned with coats of arms. From the Gothic era come many of the décor's important pictorial works, while on the church's outer walls, various gravestones of the noble families that held estates here, such as the Barons of Dalberg and the knightly family Bube von Geispitzheim or Fetzer von Geispitzheim can be seen. Further reading [ edit ] Rudolf Post: Die Mundart von Gabsheim in Rheinhessen. Erich Kreit: Gabsheim – Gegenwart und Vergangenheit . In: Heimatjahrbuch Landkreis Alzey-Worms 2003. S. 127–132. Friedrich Wilhelm Weber : Die Adelsfamilie von Geispitzheim in der Nordpfalz. Mit Nachrichten über ihre Herkunft aus dem Rheinhessischen. Dargestellt nach gegenständlichen Befunden, archivalischen Quellen und der mündlichen Überlieferung. Mit zahlreichen Fotos, Zeichnungen und einer Kartenskizze. Herausgegeben von Dr. Lothar Sießl, GTS-Druck GmbH, Kirchheimbolanden 1992; ISBN 3-926306-08-4 References [ edit ] ^ a b Direktwahlen 2019, Landkreis Alzey-Worms , Landeswahlleiter Rheinland-Pfalz, accessed 3 August 2021. ^ "Bevölkerungsstand 2021, Kreise, Gemeinden, Verbandsgemeinden" (in German). Statistisches Landesamt Rheinland-Pfalz . 2022. ^ Kommunalwahl Rheinland-Pfalz 2009, Gemeinderat ^ Liebfrauenland [ permanent dead link ] : Kulturführer Gotik in Rheinhessen External links [ edit ] Municipality’s official webpage (in German) Die Mundart von Gabsheim in Rheinhessen (in German) Presentation of Gabsheim in pictures and text from the Codex Laureshamensis (in German) Gabsheim history at regionalgeschichte.net (in German) Gabsheim: Ein Ortsportrait von Hermann Götz for the SWR Fernsehen programme Hierzuland (in German) v t e Towns and municipalities in Alzey-Worms Albig Alsheim Alzey Armsheim Bechenheim Bechtheim Bechtolsheim Bermersheim Bermersheim vor der Höhe Biebelnheim Bornheim Dintesheim Dittelsheim-Heßloch Eckelsheim Eich Ensheim Eppelsheim Erbes-Büdesheim Esselborn Flomborn Flonheim Flörsheim-Dalsheim Framersheim Freimersheim Frettenheim Gabsheim Gau-Bickelheim Gau-Heppenheim Gau-Odernheim Gau-Weinheim Gimbsheim Gumbsheim Gundersheim Gundheim Hamm am Rhein Hangen-Weisheim Hochborn Hohen-Sülzen Kettenheim Lonsheim Mauchenheim Mettenheim Mölsheim Monsheim Monzernheim Mörstadt Nack Nieder-Wiesen Ober-Flörsheim Offenheim Offstein Osthofen Partenheim Saulheim Schornsheim Siefersheim Spiesheim Stein-Bockenheim Sulzheim Udenheim Vendersheim Wachenheim Wahlheim Wallertheim Wendelsheim Westhofen Wöllstein Wonsheim Wörrstadt Authority control International VIAF National Germany Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Gabsheim&oldid=1036933864 " Categories : Municipalities in Rhineland-Palatinate Alzey-Worms Hidden categories: CS1 German-language sources (de) All articles with dead external links Articles with dead external links from January 2018 Articles with permanently dead external links Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Coordinates on Wikidata Articles with German-language sources (de) Articles with VIAF identifiers Articles with GND identifiers This page was last edited on 3 August 2021, at 15:15 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0 ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement 