 Dark Sun: Shattered Lands - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Languages Language links are at the top of the page across from the title. Search Create account Log in Personal tools Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Plot 2 Gameplay 3 Release 4 Reception Toggle Reception subsection 4.1 Sales 4.2 Critical reviews 5 References 6 External links Toggle the table of contents Toggle the table of contents Dark Sun: Shattered Lands 4 languages Deutsch Français Ladin Русский Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 1993 video game Dark Sun: Shattered Lands Cover art by Gerald Brom Developer(s) Strategic Simulations Publisher(s) Strategic Simulations Producer(s) Bret Berry Programmer(s) Russell Brown Composer(s) Ralph Thomas Series Dark Sun Platform(s) MS-DOS Release April 1993 [1] Genre(s) Role-playing Mode(s) Single-player Dark Sun: Shattered Lands is a turn-based role-playing video game that takes place in the Dungeons and Dragons ' campaign setting of Dark Sun . It was developed and published by Strategic Simulations in 1993. It received positive reviews although released initially in an unfinished state. The game had a sequel, Dark Sun: Wake of the Ravager , in 1994. An online MMORPG taking place in the same setting, Dark Sun Online: Crimson Sands , was released in 1996 and hosted on the T.E.N. Network . Plot [ edit ] Dark Sun: Shattered Lands takes place in the fictional land of Athas , a dying and hostile desert world. The locale is Draj , a city-state ruled by a powerful sorcerer-king. [2] Nearby are several "free cities", surviving in the desert thanks to the hard work of their citizens. Upon the completion of the pyramid in Draj, the Sorcerer-King desires to make a great sacrifice of blood by sweeping the desert and destroying the inhabitants of the cities not under his control. The player controls a party of up to four gladiators , condemned to fight in Draj's arena until they die, so naturally the first order of business is escape. Upon escape, the party must unite the free cities to resist Draj's army. [2] Gameplay [ edit ] Shattered Lands does not use SSI's older Gold Box engine. The game uses a top-down view of the world similar to the Ultima series . Much of the game involves interaction with other characters , giving the Dark Sun series more emphasis on role-playing and less on dungeon crawling than in the Gold Box games. [3] The game uses a variant of Advanced Dungeons & Dragons 2nd Edition rules. [3] As with other Dungeons & Dragons computer games, combat features prominently in the game play. Shattered Lands is noted for its highly strategic combat thanks to its two-dimensional turn-based combat system. No two battles are alike, and many of the "boss battles" involve a large army rather than a few powerful mages or fighters. Proper formation and spell use is a must, particularly when attacked from several directions. Characters are also far more powerful in Dark Sun than in ordinary Dungeons & Dragons campaign settings: base stats are 4d4+4 rather than 3d6, and members of one race, half-giant, receive double to their hit die rolls. Shattered Lands also incorporates elements unique to the Dark Sun campaign setting, including unique character races (the Mul and the insectoid Thri-kreen ) and extensive use of psionics . Release [ edit ] Shattered Lands was released in a somewhat unfinished state in 1993, [4] and later patched to a more workable version. It was available on both floppy disk and CD-ROM , though the CD-ROM contained no additional content and was merely used to install the game to the computer's hard drive. It was later re-released as part of the AD&D Masterpiece Collection in 1996. [5] In addition, Data East was developing console ports for the Sega Saturn and Sony PlayStation for release in 1996, [6] but they were cancelled. The game was re-released in 2015 on GOG.com with support for Windows , macOS , and Linux . Reception [ edit ] Sales [ edit ] Shattered Lands debuted at #17 on PC Data 's computer games sales chart for the month of September 1993. [7] It climbed to third place in October. [8] Critical reviews [ edit ] Reception Review scores Publication Score Dragon [9] CD-ROM Today [10] Electronic Entertainment 8 out of 10 [11] Writing for CD-ROM Today , T. Liam McDonald called Shattered Lands "a refreshing new twist on familiar AD&D games", and noted its "vastly improved interface" compared to SSI's previous products. [10] Peter Olafson of Electronic Entertainment found Shattered Lands to be flawed, but he concluded that it was still "a very good game". He summarized, "This isn't gold plate. This isn't tin. It's the real thing—with a bit of tarnish." [11] Scorpia of Computer Gaming World in 1993 assured readers that Dark Sun "is about as far from [the Gold Box series] as you can get ... SSI is taking their role-playing line in a new direction, which is good to see". While criticizing the "inanity" of the AD&D 2nd edition rules, and insufficient documentation, she concluded that "my impression of Dark Sun is favorable. SSI is moving to a more mature form of CRPG [with] much promise for the future, and promises a good game to play right now". [3] The game was reviewed in 1994 in Dragon #205 by Sandy Petersen in the "Eye of the Monitor" column, who gave the game 3 out of 5 stars. [9] John Terra of Computer Shopper mostly praised the game. [2] He called the controls "instinctive" and "easy to master". [2] He went on to compliment the audio and visuals, saying the graphics are "extremely detailed" and that the sound effects "stand out, with various combat noises that enhance the atmosphere during melee". [2] He did have negative remarks about the map feature, noting that it does not automap and that it displays the positions of enemies, eliminating some of the suspense. [2] Dark Sun was a runner-up for Computer Gaming World ' s Role-Playing Game of the Year award in June 1994, which ultimately went to Betrayal at Krondor . The editors wrote that Dark Sun "managed to capture the uniqueness of the magic system and 'scorched earth' look of Troy Denning's Prism Pentad series of novels". [12] According to GameSpy, "Dark Sun was TSR's "post-magical apocalypse" world of brutality, blood, and incredibly violent death. Dark Sun: Shattered Lands' graphics, on the other hand, were rather cutesy—not the violent, mature affair fans were hoping for." [13] References [ edit ] ^ "PC Zone Magazine" . PC Zone . No. 1. April 1993. p. 11 . Retrieved July 5, 2017 . ^ a b c d e f Terra, John (March 1, 1994). "AD&D Dark Sun: Shattered Lands Review" . Computer Shopper . Archived from the original on April 13, 2016 . Retrieved September 21, 2012 . – via HighBeam Research (subscription required) ^ a b c Scorpia (December 1993). "Good-bye Gold Box!" . Computer Gaming World . pp. 124–126 . Retrieved 29 March 2016 . ^ Shannon Appelcline (2011). Designers & Dragons . Mongoose Publishing. p. 21. ISBN 978-1-907702-58-7 . ^ Butcher, Andy (January 1996). "Games Reviews". Arcane . Future Publishing (2): 80. ^ "Role Players' Realm" . GamePro . No. 73. IDG . August 1995. p. 85 . ^ Staff (January 1994). "What's Hot; PC Data Hits List of Top-Selling Software". Computer Gaming World . No. 114. p. 240. ^ Staff (March 1994). "Leaderboard". Electronic Entertainment (3): 20. ^ a b Petersen, Sandy (May 1994). "Eye of the Monitor". Dragon (205): 59–62. ^ a b McDonald, T. Liam (January 1995). " Dark Sun: Shattered Lands ". CD-ROM Today (11): 106. ^ a b Olafson, Peter (January 1994). " Dark Sun: Shattered Sun ". Electronic Entertainment (1): 94, 95. ^ "Announcing The New Premier Awards" . Computer Gaming World . June 1994. pp. 51–58. ^ Rausch, Allen (2004-08-17). "A History of D&D Video Games - Part III" . Game Spy . Retrieved November 17, 2012 . External links [ edit ] Dark Sun: Shattered Lands at MobyGames v t e Dungeons & Dragons video games Early games dnd (1975) Dungeon (1975) DND (1977) Computer Fantasy Game Dungeon! (1982) Cloudy Mountain Treasure of Tarmin Forgotten Realms Gold Box games Pool of Radiance Pool of Radiance Curse of the Azure Bonds Secret of the Silver Blades Pools of Darkness Ruins of Myth Drannor Savage Frontier Gateway to the Savage Frontier Treasures of the Savage Frontier Other games Neverwinter Nights (1991) Unlimited Adventures Eye of the Beholder series Eye of the Beholder (1991) II: The Legend of Darkmoon III: Assault on Myth Drannor Eye of the Beholder (2002) Baldur's Gate Baldur's Gate series Baldur's Gate Tales of the Sword Coast Enhanced Edition Siege of Dragonspear II: Shadows of Amn Throne of Bhaal Enhanced Edition III: The Black Hound Baldur's Gate III Dark Alliance series Dark Alliance (2001) Dark Alliance II Dark Alliance (2021) Icewind Dale Icewind Dale Heart of Winter Enhanced Edition Icewind Dale II Neverwinter Nights Neverwinter Nights (2002) Shadows of Undrentide Hordes of the Underdark Kingmaker Darkness over Daggerford Neverwinter Nights 2 Mask of the Betrayer Storm of Zehir Mysteries of Westgate Standalone games Hillsfar Dungeon Hack Menzoberranzan Al-Qadim: The Genie's Curse Blood & Magic Sojourn/TorilMUD Descent to Undermountain Demon Stone Online Daggerdale Neverwinter Lords of Waterdeep Sword Coast Legends Idle Champions Dragonlance Silver Box games Heroes of the Lance Dragons of Flame Shadow Sorcerer Gold Box games Champions of Krynn Death Knights of Krynn The Dark Queen of Krynn Standalone games War of the Lance DragonStrike Mystara Order of the Griffon Warriors of the Eternal Sun Fantasy Empires Tower of Doom Shadow over Mystara Dark Sun Shattered Lands Wake of the Ravager Crimson Sands Ravenloft Strahd's Possession Stone Prophet Iron & Blood: Warriors of Ravenloft Greyhawk The Temple of Elemental Evil Heroes Eberron Dragonshard Online Compilations Masterpiece Collection The Forgotten Realms Archives Chronicles of Mystara Other games Spelljammer: Pirates of Realmspace Stronghold Slayer DeathKeep Birthright: The Gorgon's Alliance Planescape: Torment Scourge of Worlds Tactics Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Dark_Sun:_Shattered_Lands&oldid=1091499304 " Categories : 1993 video games Cancelled PlayStation (console) games Cancelled Sega Saturn games Dark Sun DOS games Dungeons & Dragons video games Games commercially released with DOSBox Linux games MacOS games Role-playing video games Strategic Simulations games Video games developed in the United States Video games featuring protagonists of selectable gender Windows games Hidden categories: Subscription required using via Pages containing links to subscription-only content Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Articles using Infobox video game using locally defined parameters Articles using Wikidata infoboxes with locally defined images Articles using Video game reviews template in single platform mode This page was last edited on 4 June 2022, at 17:39 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0 ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement 