 Russian honey bee - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Languages Language links are at the top of the page across from the title. Search Create account Log in Personal tools Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Breeding program Toggle Breeding program subsection 1.1 Brood rearing and swarming 2 Honey production 3 Pests and diseases Toggle Pests and diseases subsection 3.1 Varroa mite 3.2 Tracheal mites 3.3 Small hive beetle 4 References 5 External links Toggle the table of contents Toggle the table of contents Russian honey bee 4 languages Français Magyar Română 中文 Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Breed of bee Worker The Russian honeybee refers to honey bees ( Apis mellifera ) that originate in the Primorsky Krai region of Russia. This strain of bee was imported into the United States in 1997 by the USDA Agricultural Research Service 's Honeybee Breeding, Genetics & Physiology Laboratory in Baton Rouge, Louisiana in response to severe declines in bee populations caused by infestations of parasitic mites, [1] and has been used in breeding programs to improve existing stocks. Many Russian queens openly mate with drones from various stock, creating colonies that are genetically hybrid. [2] Some of these 'uncontrolled' hybrids may exhibit "increased aggressiveness, reduced honey production and a decrease in their ability to withstand mites and detrimental expressions of other traits as well." [3] Breeding program [ edit ] In conjunction with the staff at the Baton Rouge Bee Laboratory, the Russian Honey Bee Breeders Association(RHBA) was conceived in the late 1990s, and works to certify apiarists who maintain only pure-bred Russian honey bees. These stocks are bred and DNA tested for resistance to varroa mites and increased honey production. Their charge is as follows: "The primary purpose of the Russian Honey Bee Breeders Association is to maintain and improve the genetic lines of Russian honey bees through prorogation and selective breeding." [4] In order to ensure pure-bred stock, an isolated mating site, a barrier island in Louisiana, was chosen as the location for this program. [5] This program is not static as management techniques and genetic stocks develop over time to improve the health and viability of Russian honeybee stocks. Brood rearing and swarming [ edit ] Brood When first introduced to a colony, a Russian queen may take as long as 16 days to begin laying eggs. In addition to this delay as compared to other bee stocks, Russian queens can be difficult to requeen and take longer for their acceptance into a new hive, especially if they are being introduced into a hive of another stock. [3] Once successfully introduced, Russian honeybees are better able to manage their population and increase their over-wintering ability than other honeybee types due to their breeding schedule. During pollen dearths, Russian honeybees decrease their brood production to ensure adequate food stocks for the hive. [6] Adult female varroa mite Tracheal mite Small hive beetle The Russian honeybees' quick response to environmental cues allows for better management of brood rearing, but can also create swarming issues. This is due to a rapid buildup of brood stock, which can lead to swarming if not managed properly. It is also a common trait for the Russian honeybee to create supersedure cells, but their presence does not necessarily indicate an impending swarm. [3] Honey production [ edit ] Multi-state field trials have shown that Russian honeybees either meet or exceed industry standards for honey production. [7] Pests and diseases [ edit ] Varroa mite [ edit ] Russian honey bees have been proven to be more than twice as resistant to various parasitic mites than other honeybees. [8] This strain occurs in the original native range of the varroa mite , and selective pressure could have favored bees that exhibited aggressive behavior against colony-level mite infestations. Accordingly, experimental research has found that mite populations decline in colonies of pure Russian and of hybrid Russian-Italian bees. [9] The mechanisms through which mite populations are controlled in these colonies include hygienic behavior towards mites, [10] and possibly increased aggression towards mites. [11] In addition, Russian honeybees are able to detect female varroa mites within breeding cells, which they uncap leaving the mite exposed. [12] Tracheal mites [ edit ] Russian honey bees also have been shown to resist infestation by the tracheal mite Acarapis woodi . This heritable trait is likely brought about through grooming behaviors of the bees. [13] Small hive beetle [ edit ] Russian honeybees when compared to A. m. ligustica Italian honeybees, have been shown to exhibit heightened aggression toward Small Hive Beetles (SHB), resulting in "fewer invading beetles, lower small hive beetle population through time, and lesser reproduction." [14] References [ edit ] ^ "Tracheal Mites Resistant Bees" . USDA ARS . Retrieved 2020-03-25 . ^ "Comparison of Russian and Italian Honey Bees" . NC State Extension Publications . Retrieved 2020-03-25 . ^ a b c "Russian Bees" . Russian Honey Bee Breeders Association, Inc. Retrieved 25 March 2020 . ^ "Russian Honey Bee Breeders Association" . USDA ARS . Retrieved 2020-03-25 . ^ "Release of USDA-ARS Russian Honey Bees" . USDA ARS . Retrieved 2020-03-25 . ^ "Mechanisms Of Resistance" . Russian Honey Bee Breeders Association, Inc . Retrieved 25 March 2020 . ^ "Multi-state field trials of Russian honey bees: Honey Production" . Agricultural Research Service. www.ars.usda.gov . U.S. Department of Agriculture . Retrieved 25 March 2020 . ^ "Comparison of Russian and Italian Honey Bees" . NC State Extension Publications . Retrieved 25 March 2020 . ^ Tarpy, D. R.; Summers, J.; Keller, J. J. (1 April 2007). "Comparison of Parasitic Mites in Russian-Hybrid and Italian Honey Bee (Hymenoptera: Apidae) Colonies across Three Different Locations in North Carolina" . Journal of Economic Entomology . 100 (2): 258–266. doi : 10.1093/jee/100.2.258 . ISSN 0022-0493 . PMID 17461045 . ^ de Guzman, Lilia I.; Rinderer, Thomas E.; Delatte, Gary T.; Stelzer, J. Anthony; Beaman, Lorraine; Kuznetsov, Victor (July 2002). "Resistance to Acarapis woodi by honey bees from far-eastern Russia" . Apidologie . 33 (4): 411–415. doi : 10.1051/apido:2002031 . ISSN 0044-8435 . ^ Gale, Albert (1912). Australian bee lore and bee culture, including the influence of bees on crops and the colour of flowers and its influence on bee life . Sydney : W. Brooks [ who? ] . doi : 10.5962/bhl.title.56561 . ^ "Mechanisms Of Resistance" . Russian Honey Bee Breeders Association, Inc. Retrieved 25 March 2020 . ^ "Honey bee tracheal mites: Gone? But not for good" . Cooperative State Research, Education, and Extension Service . Bee Health . Retrieved 25 March 2020 . ^ Frake, Amanda; et al. (2009). "Comparative resistance of Russian and Italian honey bees (Hymenoptera: Apidae) to small hive beetles (Coleoptera: Nitidulidae)" (PDF) . Journal of Economic Entomology . 102 (1): 13–9. doi : 10.1603/029.102.0103 . PMID 19253612 . S2CID 6079828 . Retrieved 15 March 2020 . {{ cite journal }} : CS1 maint: url-status ( link ) External links [ edit ] "Russian Honeybee Breeders Association" . Danka and Beaman (May 2009). "Preliminary observations of Autumn feeding of USDA-ARS Russian honey bees to enhance flight performance during almond pollination" (PDF) – via beeculture.com. {{ cite journal }} : Cite journal requires |journal= ( help ) CS1 maint: url-status ( link ) CS1 maint: uses authors parameter ( link ) Sanford, Malcolm (22 November 2016). "Russian honey bees" . Bee Culture . Retrieved 5 April 2020 . {{ cite magazine }} : CS1 maint: url-status ( link ) Beekeeper finds Russian honeybees uniquely suited to Wisconsin (video). Wisconsin Public Television . v t e Honey bee types and characteristics Bee castes Queen bee Worker bee Laying worker bee Drone bee Life cycle Bee colony Honey bee life cycle Brood Bee learning and communication Swarming Subspecies, Breeds and Phenotypes Africanized bee Buckfast bee Cape honey bee Carniolan honey bee European dark bee Italian bee Maltese honey bee Russian honey bee Western honey bee Apis mellifera adansonii Apis mellifera artemisia Apis mellifera litorea Apis mellifera pomonella Apis mellifera meda Apis mellifera monticola Apis mellifera remipes Apis mellifera scutellata Apis mellifera siciliana Apis mellifera simensis Apis mellifera sinisxinyuan Apis mellifera sossimai Apis mellifera syriaca Apis mellifera taurica Apis mellifera unicolor Honey bee race Cultivation Beekeeping Apiology Beeswax Honey Honey extraction Propolis Royal jelly Equipment Apiary Beehive Langstroth hive Hive frame Honey super Wax foundation Horizontal top-bar hive Hive tool Queen clip Bee smoker Honey extractor Queen excluder Jenter kit Parasites and diseases Varroa destructor Varroa sensitive hygiene Small hive beetle Waxworm American foulbrood Deformed wing virus Colony collapse disorder Lists Topics in beekeeping Diseases of the honey bee Beekeeping by countries Australia Hungary India Ireland Nepal New Zealand Ukraine United Kingdom United States Museums and insectariums Malacca Bee Gallery Bee Museum of Rhodes Honey Museum Honeybee Discovery Center Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Russian_honey_bee&oldid=1136301072 " Categories : Western honey bee breeds Beekeeping in Russia Hidden categories: All articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases Articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases from December 2022 CS1 maint: url-status Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata CS1 errors: missing periodical CS1 maint: uses authors parameter This page was last edited on 29 January 2023, at 18:10 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0 ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement 