 To da Break of Dawn - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Languages Language links are at the top of the page across from the title. Search Create account Log in Personal tools Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Background 2 Track listing Toggle Track listing subsection 2.1 A-Side 2.2 B-Side 3 Sampled in 4 References Toggle the table of contents Toggle the table of contents To da Break of Dawn 1 language Português Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "To da Break of Dawn" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( December 2019 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this template message ) 1990 single by LL Cool J "To da Break of Dawn" Single by LL Cool J from the album Mama Said Knock You Out and House Party (soundtrack) B-side "To da Break of Dawn (LP/instrumental)" Released June 17, 1990 Genre Golden age hip hop , dance-pop Length 4 : 27 Label Def Jam , Motown Songwriter(s) James Todd Smith Marlon Williams Producer(s) Marley Marl LL Cool J singles chronology " Jingling Baby " (1990) " To da Break of Dawn " (1990) " The Boomin' System " (1990) " To da Break of Dawn " is a single from both LL Cool J 's fourth album, Mama Said Knock You Out , and the soundtrack to the Kid 'n Play movie House Party . The song was released on June 17, 1990 by Motown Records and Def Jam Recordings . [1] Background [ edit ] The song was a diss to LL's rivals at the time, Kool Moe Dee , MC Hammer , and Ice-T . [2] [3] Kool Moe Dee responded with the song "Death Blow" from their 1991 album Funke, Funke Wisdom . However, LL would reference the rivalry in the 1995 remix to I Shot Ya , a B-side from his sixth album Mr. Smith . "To da Break of Dawn" was ranked #11 on XXL magazine 's 2015 list of the top 20 diss songs of all time. [4] The song had a similar sound to the growing new jack swing genre. The song peaked at #17 on the Hot Rap Singles chart. Additionally, the song's lyrics were sampled in other 1990's hip-hop songs, such as " No Vaseline " by Ice Cube , "Who's Gonna Take the Weight?" by Gang Starr , and "Partner to Swing" by Chino XL . [5] Track listing [ edit ] A-Side [ edit ] "To Da Break Of Dawn" (Bug Out Mix)- 4:30 "To Da Break Of Dawn" (Remix Version)- 5:30 B-Side [ edit ] "To Da Break Of Dawn" (LP Version)- 4:27 "To Da Break Of Dawn" (Instrumental)- 4:28 Sampled in [ edit ] "To da Break of Dawn" was sampled in several other songs following its release. These include: [5] " No Vaseline " by Ice Cube "Check the Technique" by Gang Starr "Who's Gonna Take the Weight?" by Gang Starr " Love On My Mind " by Xscape "Partner to Swing" by Chino XL References [ edit ] ^ LL Cool J – To Da Break of Dawn , retrieved 2021-06-23 ^ "LL Cool J Remembers Knocking Out MC Hammer With A Diss & Explains Why (Video)" . www.ambrosiaforheads.com . November 13, 2018. ^ Shaheem, Reid (May 25, 2017). "Despite rivalry over two decades back, Ice-T and LL Cool J just met five years ago" . www.revolt.tv . ^ "Throwback: XXL'S 20 Greatest Diss Songs" . 30 July 2015 . Retrieved 3 December 2019 . ^ a b LL Cool J – To Da Break of Dawn , retrieved 2021-06-23 To da Break of Dawn at AllMusic . Retrieved 16:44, 7 April 2015 (UTC). v t e LL Cool J Discography Studio albums Radio Bigger and Deffer Walking with a Panther Mama Said Knock You Out 14 Shots to the Dome Mr. Smith Phenomenon G.O.A.T. 10 The DEFinition Todd Smith Exit 13 Authentic Compilations All World: Greatest Hits All World 2 Singles " I Can't Live Without My Radio " " Rock the Bells " " You'll Rock " " I'm Bad " " I Need Love " " Going Back to Cali " " I'm That Type of Guy " " Big Ole Butt " " One Shot at Love " " Jingling Baby " " To da Break of Dawn " " The Boomin' System " " Around the Way Girl " " Mama Said Knock You Out " " 6 Minutes of Pleasure " " Who's Afraid of the Big Bad Wolf? " " Strictly Business " " How I'm Comin' " " Back Seat (of My Jeep) " " Pink Cookies In a Plastic Bag Getting Crushed by Buildings " " Stand By Your Man " " Hey Lover " " Doin' It " " Loungin " " I Shot Ya " " Ain't Nobody " " Hit 'Em High (The Monstars' Anthem) " " Phenomenon " " 4, 3, 2, 1 " " Father " " Candy " " Zoom " " Say What " " Deepest Bluest " " Shut 'Em Down " Imagine That " " You and Me " " Put Your Hands Up " " Luv U Better " " Paradise " " All I Have " " Amazin' " Headsprung " " Hush " " Control Myself " " Cry " " Baby " Featured singles " Rampage " " This Is for the Lover in You " " Incredible " " Fatty Girl " " All I Have " " We Are the World 25 for Haiti " Other songs " Accidental Racist " v t e House Party series Films House Party (1990) House Party 2 (1991) House Party 3 (1994) House Party 4: Down to the Last Minute (2001) House Party: Tonight's the Night (2013) House Party (2023) Soundtracks House Party " To da Break of Dawn " House Party 2 " House Party II (I Don't Know What You Come to Do) " " Ain't Gonna Hurt Nobody " House Party 3 This hip hop song -related article is a stub . You can help Wikipedia by expanding it . v t e Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=To_da_Break_of_Dawn&oldid=1119300825 " Categories : 1990 singles LL Cool J songs Songs written by LL Cool J 1990 songs Motown singles Def Jam Recordings singles Song recordings produced by Marley Marl Diss tracks Hip hop song stubs Hidden categories: Articles needing additional references from December 2019 All articles needing additional references Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Articles with hAudio microformats All stub articles This page was last edited on 31 October 2022, at 19:38 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0 ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement 