 Nancy H. Rogers - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Languages Language links are at the top of the page across from the title. Search Create account Log in Personal tools Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Education 2 Career 3 Books 4 See also 5 References 6 External links Toggle the table of contents Toggle the table of contents Nancy H. Rogers 4 languages العربية تۆرکجه Deutsch مصرى Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia American lawyer and politician This biography of a living person needs additional citations for verification . Please help by adding reliable sources . Contentious material about living persons that is unsourced or poorly sourced must be removed immediately , especially if potentially libelous or harmful. Find sources: "Nancy H. Rogers" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( January 2011 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this template message ) Nancy Hardin Rogers 48th Ohio Attorney General In office May 28, 2008 – January 8, 2009 Governor Ted Strickland Preceded by Marc Dann Succeeded by Richard Cordray 18th Dean of Moritz College of Law In office 2001–2008 Preceded by Gregory H. Williams Succeeded by Alan C. Michaels Personal details Born ( 1948-09-18 ) September 18, 1948 (age 74) Alma mater University of Kansas ( BA ) Yale University ( JD ) Occupation Professor Lawyer Administrator Website Nancy H. Rogers Nancy Hardin Rogers (born September 18, 1948) [1] is an American lawyer, author, and former Attorney General of Ohio , a former Dean of the Ohio State University Moritz College of Law and the current holder of the Michael E. Moritz Chair in Alternative Dispute Resolution at the Moritz College of Law. Education [ edit ] Rogers received her B.A. with highest distinction from the University of Kansas in 1969 and her J.D. from Yale Law School in 1972. Career [ edit ] Rogers clerked for U.S. District Judge Thomas D. Lambros in Cleveland and worked at the Cleveland Legal Aid Society. [2] Rogers joined the faculty of the Ohio State University College of Law in 1975. She focused her studies on alternative dispute resolution , publishing a large number of journal articles and books, and she helped found the Ohio State Journal on Dispute Resolution , which is an official publication of the American Bar Association . On January 6, 2007, Rogers became the President of the Association of American Law Schools . [3] Rogers was also a member of the Ohio Supreme Court Advisory Committee on Dispute Resolution since its inception in 1989, until 2005. [4] On May 28, 2008, Governor Ted Strickland named Rogers as Attorney General, replacing Marc Dann . Rogers did not seek the position when it was up for reelection in November 2008 and returned to the Moritz faculty following the election. Books [ edit ] Rogers, Nancy H. ; Goldberg, Stephen B.; Sander, Frank E.A.; Cole, Sarah R. (2003). Dispute Resolution: Negotiation, Mediation, and Other Processes (4th ed.). New York City: Aspen Publishing. ISBN 0-7355-2910-8 . See also [ edit ] List of female state attorneys general in the United States References [ edit ] ^ "New Ohio AG known as quiet, deliberate", The Newark Advocate (May 29, 2008), p. 1. ^ "Rogers' CV (PDF)" (PDF) . Archived from the original (PDF) on 2006-03-09 . Retrieved 2006-06-13 . ^ Special Edition , Winter 2006, page 9. [ permanent dead link ] ^ Moritz e-Record December 5, 2005 [ permanent dead link ] External links [ edit ] Nancy H. Rogers Profile AALS nomination memo Legal offices Preceded by Marc Dann Attorney General of Ohio 2008-2009 Succeeded by Richard Cordray Academic offices Preceded by Gregory H. Williams Dean of Moritz College of Law 2001-2007 Succeeded by Alan C. Michaels v t e Ohio Attorneys General Stanbery McCormick Pugh McCook Kimball Wolcott Murray Critchfield Richardson Olds West Pond Little Pillars Nash Hollingsworth Lawrence Kohler Watson Richards Monnette Sheets Ellis Denman Hogan Turner McGhee Price Crabbe Turner Bettman Bricker Duffy Herbert Jenkins Duffy O'Neill Saxbe McElroy Saxbe Brown, P. Brown, W. Celebrezze Fisher Montgomery Petro Dann Rogers Cordray DeWine Yost Authority control International FAST ISNI VIAF WorldCat National Norway Germany Israel United States Netherlands Academics CiNii Other IdRef Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Nancy_H._Rogers&oldid=1146964676 " Categories : Living people University of Kansas alumni Yale Law School alumni Ohio State University faculty Moritz College of Law faculty Deans of law schools in the United States Women deans (academic) Ohio Democrats Ohio Attorneys General American academic administrators American women legal scholars American legal scholars 1948 births Hidden categories: All articles with dead external links Articles with dead external links from April 2020 Articles with permanently dead external links Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata BLP articles lacking sources from January 2011 All BLP articles lacking sources Articles with FAST identifiers Articles with ISNI identifiers Articles with VIAF identifiers Articles with WorldCat identifiers Articles with BIBSYS identifiers Articles with GND identifiers Articles with J9U identifiers Articles with LCCN identifiers Articles with NTA identifiers Articles with CINII identifiers Articles with SUDOC identifiers This page was last edited on 28 March 2023, at 01:07 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0 ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement 