 Toni Mumford - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Languages Language links are at the top of the page across from the title. Search Create account Log in Personal tools Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Personal life 2 Career Toggle Career subsection 2.1 NASA 3 See also 4 References Toggle the table of contents Toggle the table of contents Toni Mumford Add languages Add links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Deputy Associate Administrator for Management for NASA's HEO Mission Directorate This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page . ( Learn how and when to remove these template messages ) The topic of this article may not meet Wikipedia's notability guideline for biographies . Please help to demonstrate the notability of the topic by citing reliable secondary sources that are independent of the topic and provide significant coverage of it beyond a mere trivial mention. If notability cannot be shown, the article is likely to be merged , redirected , or deleted . Find sources: "Toni Mumford" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( June 2021 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this template message ) This article relies largely or entirely on a single source . Relevant discussion may be found on the talk page . Please help improve this article by introducing citations to additional sources . Find sources: "Toni Mumford" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( June 2021 ) This article may rely excessively on sources too closely associated with the subject , potentially preventing the article from being verifiable and neutral . Please help improve it by replacing them with more appropriate citations to reliable, independent, third-party sources . ( June 2021 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this template message ) ( Learn how and when to remove this template message ) Toni Mumford Women@NASA Interview (2011) Nationality American Employer NASA Title Deputy Associate Administrator for Management for NASA ’s Human Exploration and Operations (HEO) Mission Directorate Toni Mumford is the Deputy Associate Administrator for Management for NASA ’s Human Exploration and Operations (HEO) Mission Directorate. [1] She is located at Mary W. Jackson NASA Headquarters in Washington, D.C. Personal life [ edit ] Mumford's mother worked at NASA, starting at a prior organization which joined the new Agency in 1958, and retired in 1978. [2] Mumford is a breast cancer survivor and an active volunteer with the American Cancer Society . She participates in the annual Relay for Life fundraising event. [2] Career [ edit ] Mumford's career with the federal government started in the U.S. Department of Education as a clerk/typist, GS-2, in July 1978. [2] NASA [ edit ] In April 1980, Mumford joined NASA's Office of Space Transportation Systems, which was developing of the Space Shuttle , in a secretarial position. Over the next 26 years, she worked multiple positions with different organizations at NASA Headquarters and at NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center . [2] In 2011, she was serving as the Assistant Associate Administrator (AAA) for the Resources Management and Analysis Office, Space Operations Mission Directorate (SOMD), working with a team to manage about a third of NASA's annual budget (around $8 billion at the time). [2] In a 2011 NASA reorganization, the Space Operations Mission Directorate (SOMD) combined with the Exploration Systems Mission Directorate to form the Human Exploration and Operations (HEO) Mission Directorate. [3] Mumford was then the Director of the HEO Resources Management Office. [4] [5] She became the Deputy AA for Policy & Plans for HEO around 2015. [6] In the 2020 reorganization of HEO, she became the Deputy Associate Administrator for Management, serving under Kathy Lueders . See also [ edit ] Budget of NASA Women in NASA References [ edit ] ^ "About the Human Exploration and Operations Mission Directorate" . NASA . 29 April 2015 . Retrieved 30 June 2021 . ^ a b c d e "Toni Mumford" . Women@NASA . NASA . 2011 . Retrieved 30 June 2021 . ^ "HUMAN EXPLORATION AND OPERATIONS 2014" . NASA SBIR/STTR . NASA . Retrieved 30 June 2021 . ^ Mumford, Toni (March 2012). "Human Exploration and Operations Mission Directorate FY 2013 Budget Overview" (PDF) . NASA . Retrieved 30 June 2021 . ^ Mumford, Toni (3 March 2016). "Budget Status for NASA Advisory Council Human Exploration and Operations Committee" (PDF) . NASA . Retrieved 30 June 2021 . ^ "About the Human Exploration and Operations Mission Directorate" . NASA . 29 April 2015 . Retrieved June 30, 2021 . Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Toni_Mumford&oldid=1135802848 " Categories : NASA people Living people Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Articles with topics of unclear notability from June 2021 All articles with topics of unclear notability Biography articles with topics of unclear notability Articles needing additional references from June 2021 All articles needing additional references Articles lacking reliable references from June 2021 All articles lacking reliable references Articles with multiple maintenance issues Articles with hCards Year of birth missing (living people) Place of birth missing (living people) This page was last edited on 26 January 2023, at 23:27 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0 ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement 