 Alan B. Slifka - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Languages Language links are at the top of the page across from the title. Search Create account Log in Personal tools Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Education 2 Professional background 3 Philanthropy 4 Alan B. Slifka Foundation 5 Personal life 6 References Toggle the table of contents Toggle the table of contents Alan B. Slifka 1 language עברית Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Alan B. Slifka Born ( 1929-10-13 ) October 13, 1929 Manhattan, New York United States Died February 4, 2011 (2011-02-04) (aged 81) Manhattan, New York United States Nationality American Education Harvard University , M.B.A. Yale University Occupation(s) Securities analyst , investor , philanthropist Years active 58 years Employer(s) Halcyon Asset Management, founder and co-chairman L.F. Rothschild & Company Known for The Abraham Fund Initiatives Big Apple Circus Joseph Slifka Center for Jewish Life at Yale University Alan B. Slifka Foundation Spouse(s) Jacqueline W. Slifka Virginia B. Slifka Riva Ritvo-Slifka Children Michael Slifka Randolph Slifka David Slifka Parent(s) Joseph Slifka Sylvia Slifka Awards Knesset Prize for Coexistence, 2000 Alan Bruce Slifka (October 13, 1929 – February 4, 2011) was a New York investor and philanthropist, a co-founder of the Abraham Fund and founding chairman of the Big Apple Circus . He was a native of Manhattan . [1] Education [ edit ] Slifka and his sister were initially home schooled by their mother. This provided an opportunity for the twins to learn the importance of moral values and the basics of coexistence. In the fourth grade, the twins began studying at the Ethical Culture Society 's Fieldston School . [2] Slifka graduated from Yale University in 1951, where he worked on the business staff of campus humor magazine the Yale Record . [3] He then went on to earn a Master's degree in Business Administration at Harvard University in 1953. Professional background [ edit ] Following his graduation from Harvard, Slifka joined the financial firm L.F. Rothschild & Company, where he worked as a securities analyst for 32 years, rising to partner before leaving to start his own company, now Halcyon Asset Management. [2] Philanthropy [ edit ] In 1977, Slifka became the founding chairman of the New York School for Circus Arts, a non-profit training school whose performing arm is the Big Apple Circus . [2] [4] In 1993, he became founding chairman emeritus. [4] In 1995, in recognition of Slifka's lead gift to a successful capital campaign, the circus's new permanent creative center in Walden, NY was named the Slifka Family Creative Center. [5] Together with sociologist Eugene Wiener , Slifka was a co-founder in 1989 of The Abraham Fund Initiatives , named for the common ancestor of Arabs and Jews, and served as chairman of the organization since its founding. This was the first nonprofit organization dedicated to furthering coexistence between Israel's Arab and Jewish citizens. [2] The Abraham Fund works to advance a shared society of inclusion and equality between Jews and Arabs in Israel. [6] The Slifka Program on Intercommunal Coexistence at Brandeis University , create by Slifka in 2001, seeks to build professional expertise and creative leadership in the field of coexistence and offers a master's degree in coexistence and conflict. [7] The Sylvia and Joseph Slifka Israeli Coexistence Scholarship at Brandeis, which Slifka funded in honor of his parents, is awarded each year to two citizens of Israel (one Jewish, one Arab) who are committed to fostering coexistence and harmony. [8] In recognition of his work with The Abraham Fund Initiatives , Slifka was awarded the Knesset Prize for Coexistence in 2000. [6] Brandeis awarded him an honorary doctorate in 2003. [8] Alan B. Slifka Foundation [ edit ] The Alan B. Slifka Foundation was established in New York in 1965. [9] The foundation's goals include harmony not only among Jews and Arabs but also between religious and secular elements of Israeli society. In addition to fostering Jewish values and education, the foundation also promotes biomedical research on sarcomas and autism spectrum disorders. [8] Personal life [ edit ] Alan Bruce Slifka was the son of Joseph and Sylvia Slifka. His twin sister is Barbara Slifka. His father owned successful textile and real estate businesses. At the time of his death he was married to Riva Ritvo-Slifka. He had three sons, Michael, Randolph, and David. [8] References [ edit ] ^ Hevesi, Dennis (February 9, 2011). "Alan Slifka, Who Promoted Arab-Jewish Ties, Is Dead at 81" . NY Times . Archived from the original on February 4, 2012 . Retrieved 10 February 2011 . ^ a b c d Young, Susan. "Alan Slifka: Venture Philanthropist" . Harvard Business School . Retrieved 10 February 2011 . ^ The Yale Record . New Haven: Yale Record. May, 1949. p. 3. ^ a b "History of the Big Apple Circus" (PDF) . Big Apple Circus. Archived from the original (PDF) on 25 December 2010 . Retrieved 11 February 2011 . ^ "About us: Our history" . Big Apple Circus. Archived from the original on 20 November 2010 . Retrieved 11 February 2011 . ^ a b Shefler, Gil (February 6, 2011). "Alan B. Slifka, 81, Abraham Fund founder dies" . Jerusalem Post . Archived from the original on 11 February 2011 . Retrieved 10 February 2011 . ^ "Alan Slifka, Abraham Fund founder, dies" . JTA. Archived from the original on 9 February 2011 . Retrieved 11 February 2011 . ^ a b c d "Alan Slifka, philanthropist, coexistence advocate, dies" . BrandeisNOW . Retrieved 10 February 2011 . ^ "Alan B. Slifka Foundation" . GuideStar . Authority control International ISNI VIAF WorldCat National France BnF data Germany Czech Republic Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Alan_B._Slifka&oldid=1113561788 " Categories : 1929 births 2011 deaths American bankers Jewish American philanthropists Philanthropists from New York (state) Autism activists Harvard Business School alumni People from Manhattan Yale University alumni 20th-century American philanthropists 21st-century American Jews Hidden categories: Pages using infobox person with multiple employers Pages using infobox person with multiple spouses Pages using infobox person with multiple parents Articles with hCards Articles with ISNI identifiers Articles with VIAF identifiers Articles with WorldCat identifiers Articles with BNF identifiers Articles with BNFdata identifiers Articles with GND identifiers Articles with NKC identifiers This page was last edited on 2 October 2022, at 03:19 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0 ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement 