 Two Hands, One Mouth: Live in Europe - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Languages Language links are at the top of the page across from the title. Search Create account Log in Personal tools Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Track listing 2 Personnel 3 References 4 External links Toggle the table of contents Toggle the table of contents Two Hands, One Mouth: Live in Europe Add languages Add links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Two Hands, One Mouth: Live in Europe" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( August 2015 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this template message ) 2013 live album by Sparks Two Hands, One Mouth: Live in Europe Live album by Sparks Released 18 March 2013 Genre Art pop Length 86 minutes Label Lil' Beethoven Sparks chronology The Seduction of Ingmar Bergman (2009) Two Hands, One Mouth: Live in Europe (2013) FFS (2015) Professional ratings Review scores Source Rating Q (favourable) Uncut (favourable) Classic Rock (favourable) Sunday Mail (favourable) [1] Two Hands, One Mouth: Live in Europe is an album by American rock / pop group Sparks , released in March 2013. It is their first ever live album, and first double CD album. In October 2012, Ron and Russell Mael embarked on the Two Hands, One Mouth Tour, which saw them performing for the first time ever as a duo, with no band. The tour started in Europe with a 18-city leg, and visited Lithuania, Latvia, Finland, Norway, Sweden, Germany, Belgium, the United Kingdom and Ireland. The final concert of the leg was at the sold-out Barbican Centre in London. The tour then took the group to Japan with concerts in Tokyo and Osaka in January 2013. In April 2013, the show was presented for the first time in the United States with two performances at the Coachella Festival , followed by a short leg of concerts in the rest of the country. Two Hands, One Mouth: Live In Europe was released in March 2013. It contains concert recordings gathered from various cities during the European leg of the tour, in October 2012. Track listing [ edit ] All tracks are written by Ron Mael or Ron Mael and Russell Mael. CD 1: The Show No. Title Originally On Length 1. "Sparks Overture" ("I Married Myself"/"Looks, Looks, Looks"/"Good Morning"/"The Number One Song in Heaven"/"This Town Ain't Big Enough for Both of Us"/"Dick Around"/"Never Turn Your Back on Mother Earth"/"Something for the Girl With Everything"/"Suburban Homeboy"/"I Married Myself (Reprise)") 3:24 2. "Hospitality on Parade" Indiscreet 4:13 3. "Metaphor" Hello Young Lovers 4:20 4. "Propaganda" Propaganda 0:24 5. "At Home, At Work, At Play" Propaganda 3:18 6. "Sherlock Holmes" Angst in My Pants 3:33 7. "Good Morning" Exotic Creatures of the Deep 3:48 8. "Under the Table With Her" Indiscreet 3:07 9. "My Baby's Taking Me Home" Lil' Beethoven 5:10 10. "Singing in the Shower" Marc & Robert ( Les Rita Mitsouko album) 3:26 11. "The Wedding of Jacqueline Kennedy to Russell Mael" B-side of "Looks Looks Looks" 1:46 12. "Excerpts from The Seduction of Ingmar Bergman " " ("I Am Ingmar Bergman"/"Mr. Bergman How Are You?"/"We've Got To Turn Him 'Round"/"He's Home) The Seduction of Ingmar Bergman 6:45 13. " Dick Around " Hello Young Lovers 2:45 14. " Never Turn Your Back on Mother Earth " Propaganda 2:16 15. " This Town Ain't Big Enough for Both of Us " Kimono My House 3:09 16. "The Rhythm Thief" Lil' Beethoven 4:17 17. "Suburban Homeboy" Lil' Beethoven 3:56 18. " When Do I Get to Sing 'My Way' " Gratuitous Sax & Senseless Violins 6:01 CD 2: The Encore No. Title Originally on Length 1. " The Number One Song in Heaven " No. 1 in Heaven 7:01 2. " Beat the Clock " No. 1 in Heaven 7:17 3. "Two Hands One Mouth" Previously unreleased 6:06 Personnel [ edit ] Composed by Ron Mael or by Ron Mael and Russell Mael. Musicians Ron Mael – Keyboard Russell Mael – Vocals References [ edit ] ^ "Sparks - Two Hands One Mouth" . Sparks Official Website . Retrieved 30 December 2014 . External links [ edit ] Sparks Official Website v t e Sparks Ron Mael Russell Mael Jim Mankey Earle Mankey Harley Feinstein Martin Gordon Adrian Fisher Norman "Dinky" Diamond Trevor White Ian Hampton Bob Haag Leslie Bohem David Kendrick Christi Haydon Tammy Glover Dean Menta Albums Halfnelson/Sparks A Woofer in Tweeter's Clothing Kimono My House Propaganda Indiscreet Big Beat Introducing Sparks Nº 1 in Heaven Terminal Jive Whomp That Sucker Angst in My Pants In Outer Space Pulling Rabbits Out of a Hat Music That You Can Dance To Interior Design Gratuitous Sax & Senseless Violins Plagiarism Balls Lil' Beethoven Hello Young Lovers Exotic Creatures of the Deep The Seduction of Ingmar Bergman Two Hands, One Mouth: Live in Europe Hippopotamus A Steady Drip, Drip, Drip The Girl Is Crying in Her Latte Singles " This Town Ain't Big Enough for Both of Us " " Amateur Hour " " Never Turn Your Back on Mother Earth " " I Want to Hold Your Hand " " The Number One Song in Heaven " " Beat the Clock " " When I'm with You " " I Predict " " Cool Places " " With All My Might " " When Do I Get to Sing 'My Way' " " When I Kiss You (I Hear Charlie Parker Playing) " " Now That I Own the BBC " " Dick Around " " Johnny Delusional " Related Giorgio Moroder Telex Sex (Telex album) Noël Gleaming Spires Les Rita Mitsouko Devo Todd Rundgren Sparks Spectacular Tony Visconti Jane Wiedlin FFS ( self-titled album ) The Sparks Brothers Annette Discography Authority control MusicBrainz release group Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Two_Hands,_One_Mouth:_Live_in_Europe&oldid=1083979001 " Categories : 2013 live albums Sparks (band) albums Hidden categories: Articles needing additional references from August 2015 All articles needing additional references Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Duration without hAudio microformat Articles with hAudio microformats Album articles lacking alt text for covers Pages using track listing with unknown parameters Use dmy dates from April 2020 Articles with MusicBrainz release group identifiers This page was last edited on 21 April 2022, at 22:30 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0 ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement 