 Miha Mazzini - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Languages Language links are at the top of the page across from the title. Search Create account Log in Personal tools Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Biography 2 Work Toggle Work subsection 2.1 Genre 2.2 Awards 2.3 Reviews 3 Commentary 4 Fiction books in English 5 E-books 6 Films 7 Multilingual Web film project 8 References 9 External links Toggle the table of contents Toggle the table of contents Miha Mazzini 7 languages Čeština Deutsch فارسی Italiano مصرى Polski Slovenščina Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Miha Mazzini Miha Mazzini Born ( 1961-06-03 ) 3 June 1961 (age 61) Jesenice , Slovenia , Yugoslavia Occupation Novelist, screenwriter, film director, columnist Nationality Slovenian Alma mater University of Ljubljana, Ljubljana Period 1981 to present Genre Novel, Short story, Film Notable works Guarding Hanna , The Cartier Project , King of the Rattling Spirits Website www .mihamazzini .com Miha Mazzini (born 3 June 1961 in Jesenice , Yugoslavia ) is a Slovenian writer, screenwriter and film director with thirty published books, translated in ten languages. He has a PhD in anthropology from the Institutum Studiorum Humanitatis and has MA in Creative Writing for Film and Television at The University of Sheffield . He is a Voting member of the European Film Academy . Biography [ edit ] He described his childhood living with his mother and grandmother in Titoist Yugoslavia , in two novels. The protagonist of the 2002 novel King of the Rattling Spirits (based on his 2001 Sweet Dreams film script) is 12 years old and in the 2015 novel Childhood the protagonist is five. His first novel Crumbs (American title The Cartier Project ) was set in his hometown of Jesenice and published in 1989 and sold 54,000 copies. It won the government award for the best novel of the year and Mazzini won the award for excellent artistic achievement by a young writer, given by the opposition. That was highly unusual for the times when Yugoslavia started slowly breaking apart. [1] He was the first Slovenian writer to write a novel about the erased , people that lost all of their rights and legal status after the declaration of the country's independence in 1991. Later he adapted the novel for the feature film Erased . His historical novel Paloma Negra was dealing with Yu-Mex music in 1950's, when Yugoslav singers started mimicking the songs and music they've seen in Mexican films. During the research for the novel, Mazzini recorded the stories told by protagonists and made a documentary called Yugoslav Mexico (YuMex). [2] The novel German Lottery is set in the same era but deals with swindlers, illusions and unreliable protagonists. Work [ edit ] Genre [ edit ] Mazzini introduced in the post-1990 Slovene literature a tough protagonist, characteristic of Noir fiction , in his novel Guarding Hanna . Awards [ edit ] His Cartier Project was the all-time best-selling novel in Yugoslavia . It won the 1987 Best Novel of the Year award from both the pro-government and opposition newspapers. Later his work was selected for many international anthologies, recently his short story Mother was included in Contemporary European Fiction anthology and short story Avro Lancaster in Best European Fiction 2018 anthology. In 2012, one of his stories (That Winter) received the Pushcart Prize . Mazzini won the 2016 Kresnik Award for his novel Otroštvo (Childhood). in 2019 he won best screenplay for the film Erased at FEST festival, Belgrade, Serbia, [3] and at the Raindance festival, London, UK. [4] Reviews [ edit ] "In ... Guarding Hanna, [Mazzini] has created a bestial protagonist ... a gargoyle of a man [who] struggles heroically with his own nature only to find that life has played him one horrific joke." — Village Voice "[Hanna's] a wonderful creation: vulnerable, lonely, trying to keep her mood upbeat but not always succeeding. In fact, she’s just the thing to melt the Beast’s hostility—or drive him, with her chatter, to homicidal distraction....Throw in the narrator’s grim musings on his lot in life and his occasional urge to strangle Hanna, and you have a tonic mix of menace and comedy that keeps things hopping right up to the book’s twist ending." — Seattle Times Commentary [ edit ] In October 2019, Mazzini commented on the decision of Swedish Academy to give the Nobel Prize for literature to Peter Handke by saying, "some artists sold their human souls for ideologies (Hamsun and Nazism), some for hate (Celine and his rabid antisemitism), some for money and power (Kusturica) but the one that offended me the most was Handke with his naivety for the Milošević regime (...) I found him cruel and totally self-absorbed in his naivety." [5] Fiction books in English [ edit ] Guarding Hanna (2003, a novel) The Cartier Project (2004, a novel) King of the Rattling Spirits (2005, a novel) Collector of Names (2009, a novel) German Lottery (2012, a novel) Crumbs (2014, a novel) Paloma Negra (2014, a novel) E-books [ edit ] Mother (short story online) Films [ edit ] Cartier Project (1991, TV film, scriptwriter) You're Free. Decide. (1999, short film, scriptwriter and director) Sweet Dreams (2001, feature film, scriptwriter) The Orphan with the magic voice (2003, short film, scriptwriter and director) A Very Simple Story (2008, short film, scriptwriter and director) Erased (2018, feature film, scriptwriter and director) Multilingual Web film project [ edit ] A Very Simple Story script in multiple languages, read by actresses from different countries. Screenwriter and director of Slovenian (8:28) and Italian (9:57) film. Project was nominated for the Prix Europe award. References [ edit ] ^ "A Literature of Independence: Miha Mazzini | Books Feature | the Skinny" . ^ "YuMex, Jugoslovanska Mehika" . IMDb . ^ "Filmovi "Divljina" i "Slučaj Makavejev ili proces u bioskopskoj sali" laureati 47. FEST-a - Vesti" . ^ " 'The Planters' triumphs at Raindance Film Festival" . ^ Cain, Sian (10 October 2019). " 'A troubling choice': authors criticise Peter Handke's controversial Nobel win" . The Guardian . Retrieved 19 May 2020 . External links [ edit ] Miha Mazzini at IMDb Mazzini's home page A Very Simple Story Multilingual Web film project Authority control International ISNI VIAF WorldCat National Germany Italy United States Czech Republic Poland Other IdRef Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Miha_Mazzini&oldid=1127089058 " Categories : Slovenian screenwriters Male screenwriters People from Jesenice, Jesenice Slovenian novelists 1961 births Living people University of Ljubljana alumni Kresnik Award laureates Hidden categories: Use dmy dates from February 2020 Articles with ISNI identifiers Articles with VIAF identifiers Articles with WorldCat identifiers Articles with GND identifiers Articles with ICCU identifiers Articles with LCCN identifiers Articles with NKC identifiers Articles with PLWABN identifiers Articles with SUDOC identifiers This page was last edited on 12 December 2022, at 20:59 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0 ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement 