 Names Hill - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Languages Language links are at the top of the page across from the title. Search Create account Log in Personal tools Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 History 2 References 3 Further reading 4 External links Toggle the table of contents Toggle the table of contents Names Hill 1 language Cebuano Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia United States historic place Names Hill U.S. National Register of Historic Places The Jim Bridger inscription on Names Hill Show map of Wyoming Show map of the United States Location On the Green River , 5 mi (8.0 km) south of LaBarge and west of U.S. Route 189 Coordinates 42°10′36″N 110°11′14.5″W ﻿ / ﻿ 42.17667°N 110.187361°W ﻿ / 42.17667; -110.187361 Coordinates : 42°10′36″N 110°11′14.5″W ﻿ / ﻿ 42.17667°N 110.187361°W ﻿ / 42.17667; -110.187361 Area 4.5 acres (1.8 ha) Built 1822 NRHP reference No. 69000193 Added to NRHP April 16, 1969 Names Hill is a bluff located on the bank of the Green River in the U.S. state of Wyoming , where travelers on the Oregon and California trails carved their names into the rock. It is one of three notable "recording areas" along the emigrant trails in Wyoming along with Register Cliff and Independence Rock . The site was listed on the National Register of Historic Places on April 16, 1969. [1] History [ edit ] Names Hill was located near a heavily used crossing of the Green River. The earliest human recordings at the site are Native American pictographs . [2] European American names began appearing as early as 1822 as mountain men crossed the river on their way to the beaver streams of the Western Rocky Mountains. In 1844, Caleb Greenwood and Isaac Hitchcock lead the first wagon train over what would later be called the Sublette-Greenwood Cutoff , along the way crossing the Green River at Names Hill. The wagon trains would rest at the Green River following a 40-mile (64 km) waterless trek across the prairie, providing an opportunity for travelers to add their names to the hill. [3] Among the more famous names inscribed on the rock is famed mountain man Jim Bridger . Some have disputed the authenticity of the signature as Bridger was thought to have been illiterate. [2] References [ edit ] ^ Barnhardt, Bill (April 14, 1969). "Names Hill" . National Register of Historic Places Nomination Form . National Park Service . Retrieved September 6, 2017 . with accompanying map and photo ^ a b "Cokeville" . Wyoming Tales and Trails . Retrieved March 28, 2009 . ^ "Names Hill" . Public Lands Interpretive Association . Retrieved March 28, 2009 . Further reading [ edit ] Keyser, James D.; Poetschat, George R. (2005). Warrior Art of Wyoming's Green River Basin . Portland, Ore.: Oregon Archaeological Society. ISBN 978-0-9764804-1-9 . Kelly, Charles (1933). List of Emigrants' Names Carved on "Names Hill" and "Holden Hill" on Green River, Wyoming . External links [ edit ] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Names Hill . Names Hill State Historic Site Wyoming State Parks, Historic Sites & Trails Names Hill Wyoming State Historic Preservation Office v t e Mormon Trail landmarks Illinois Nauvoo Iowa Garden Grove, Iowa Mount Pisgah, Iowa Nebraska Winter Quarters (North Omaha, Nebraska) Chimney Rock Courthouse and Jail Rocks Scotts Bluff Wyoming Register Cliff Fort Laramie National Historic Site Independence Rock Devil's Gate Martin's Cove South Pass Names Hill Fort Bridger Utah Big Mountain Pass Emigration Canyon This Is the Place Heritage Park v t e National Register of Historic Places in Lincoln County, Wyoming National Historic Landmark District J. C. Penney Historic District Historic district Salt River Hydroelectric Powerplant Historic properties Emigrant Springs Haddenham Cabin Johnston Scout Rocks Kemmerer Hotel Lincoln County Courthouse Names Hill J.C. Penney House Rock Church US Post Office-Kemmerer Main See also: National Register of Historic Places listings in Lincoln County, Wyoming and List of National Historic Landmarks in Wyoming v t e Protected areas of Wyoming Federal National Parks : Grand Teton Yellowstone National monuments : Devils Tower Fossil Butte National Historic Sites : Fort Laramie National Historic Trails : California Trail Mormon Trail Oregon Trail Pony Express National Wildlife Refuges : Bamforth Cokeville Meadows Hutton Lake Mortenson Lake Pathfinder Seedskadee National Elk Refuge Jackson National Fish Hatchery National Recreation Areas : Bighorn Canyon Flaming Gorge ( USFS ) National Forests : Ashley Bighorn Bridger-Teton Medicine Bow - Routt Shoshone Caribou-Targhee National Grasslands : Thunder Basin Wilderness Areas : Absaroka-Beartooth Bridger Cloud Peak Encampment River Fitzpatrick Gros Ventre Huston Park Jedediah Smith North Absaroka Platte River Popo Agie Savage Run Teton Washakie Winegar Hole Wild and Scenic Rivers Clarks Fork of the Yellowstone River Snake River State State Parks: Bear River Boysen Buffalo Bill Curt Gowdy Edness K. Wilkins Glendo Guernsey Hawk Springs Hot Springs Keyhole Seminoe Sinks Canyon State Historical Sites: Ames Monument Connor Battlefield Fort Bridger Fort Fetterman Fort Fred Steele Fort Phil Kearny Granger Stage Station Governors' Mansion Independence Rock Legend Rock Medicine Lodge Names Hill Oregon Trail Ruts Piedmont Charcoal Kilns Pioneer Memorial Museum Point of Rocks Stage Station Register Cliff South Pass City Territorial Prison Trail End County County Parks: Ayres Natural Bridge Wyoming Division of State Parks and Historic Sites ( web ) Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Names_Hill&oldid=1093462866 " Categories : Landforms of Lincoln County, Wyoming California Trail Oregon Trail Hills of the United States Wyoming state historic sites National Register of Historic Places in Lincoln County, Wyoming Inscribed rocks Transportation on the National Register of Historic Places in Wyoming IUCN Category III Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Coordinates on Wikidata Commons category link is on Wikidata This page was last edited on 16 June 2022, at 19:56 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0 ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement 