 Panglao Island - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Languages Language links are at the top of the page across from the title. Search Create account Log in Personal tools Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Geography 2 History 3 Biodiversity 4 Tourism 5 Transportation 6 See also 7 References 8 External links Toggle the table of contents Toggle the table of contents Panglao Island 16 languages Azərbaycanca Cebuano Deutsch Español Français Galego Nederlands 日本語 Русский Simple English Svenska Tagalog தமிழ் Українська اردو 中文 Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons Wikivoyage From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Island in the province of Bohol in the Philippines Panglao Island Aerial view of Panglao Island (before the construction of the airport ) Panglao Island Location within the Philippines Show map of Visayas Panglao Island Panglao Island (Philippines) Show map of Philippines Geography Location Bohol Sea Coordinates 9°36′N 123°49′E ﻿ / ﻿ 9.6°N 123.82°E ﻿ / 9.6; 123.82 Coordinates : 9°36′N 123°49′E ﻿ / ﻿ 9.6°N 123.82°E ﻿ / 9.6; 123.82 Area 91.12 km 2 (35.18 sq mi) [1] Length 16 km (9.9 mi) Width 7.5 km (4.66 mi) Administration Philippines Region Central Visayas Province Bohol Municipalities Dauis Panglao Largest settlement Dauis (pop. 45,663) Demographics Population 79,216 (2015 census) [2] Pop. density 870/km 2 (2250/sq mi) Additional information Panglao is an island in the north Bohol Sea , located in the Central Visayas region of the Visayas island group, in the south-central Philippines . Geography [ edit ] Panglao Island, Bohol The island has an area of 91.12 square kilometres (35.18 sq mi). It is within Bohol Province , and comprises two municipalities: Dauis and Panglao . Panglao island is located southwest of the island of Bohol and east and south of Cebu . Panglao has a terrain that ranges from plain, hilly to mountainous. Panglao is made of Maribojoc limestone, the youngest of the limestone units found in the western area of Bohol. The limestone composition delayed the development of the international airport as coralline limestone is soluble which causes formation of caves and sinkholes . One interesting geological feature found in the island is the Hinagdanan Cave which has an underground water source. The cave is an important water source as the island has no rivers or lakes. Panglao is a popular tourist destination in the Philippines and includes several small islands, such as Gak-ang, Pontod, and Balicasag and is close to Pamalican island. According to the 2015 census, it has a population of 79,216. [2] History [ edit ] Panglao was known to Chinese , Malay , Siamese and Indonesian traders. It once housed the Kedatuan of Dapitan. [ citation needed ] Biodiversity [ edit ] About 250 new species of crustaceans and 2500 new species of mollusks were found around the island. The discovery was the work of the Panglao Marine Biodiversity Project. The project found that Panglao alone has more marine biodiversity than Japan and the Mediterranean Sea . [3] Balicasag Marine Sanctuary Tourism [ edit ] Alona Beach overview Panglao island is one of the main tourist destinations on the Philippines. Alona Beach is the most popular tourist spot on the island, noted for its white sand and clear water. There are also a lot of attractions to do for tourists such as scuba diving , island hopping, dolphin watching, snorkeling, kitesurfing and fishing. Transportation [ edit ] Bohol–Panglao International Airport (TAG/RPSP) is the primary international airport serving the province of Bohol . The airport opened in November 2018, replacing the former Tagbilaran Airport and now serving Panglao Island and the rest of Bohol. There are almost hourly daytime flights to and from Manila operated by Philippine Airlines , Cebu Pacific , and Air Asia . There are also flights to and from Davao, Cagayan de Oro, and Clark. International flights are expected to commence in late 2019/early 2020. It is less than 2 hours of travel time by fast ferry to Cebu. There is a regular air-conditioned bus service from the airport to Tagbilaran City (Island City Mall and v/v PHP 50 each way) and a circular route to Alona beach. Short trips are usually by motor tricycle taxis, fares negotiable. The island is connected with the Bohol main island by two bridges namely the Cong. Suarez Bridge and the Gov. Borja Bridge. A third bridge, also connecting the island to mainland Bohol, is under construction. See also [ edit ] List of islands of the Philippines List of protected areas of the Philippines References [ edit ] ^ "Philippine Standard Geographic Code (PSGC) - Province: BOHOL" . nap.psa.gov.ph . Philippine Statistics Authority. Archived from the original on April 18, 2018 . Retrieved April 17, 2018 . ^ a b Census of Population (2020). "Region VII (Central Visayas)" . Total Population by Province, City, Municipality and Barangay . PSA . Retrieved July 8, 2021 . ^ Pedroso, Kate (March 2, 2007). "Panglao, Bohol: a center of marine biodiversity" . Philippine Daily Inquirer . Archived from the original on February 21, 2013 . Retrieved June 15, 2012 . External links [ edit ] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Panglao Island . Panglao travel guide from Wikivoyage Panglao Island, Bohol - UNESCO World Heritage Centre v t e Protected areas in Central Visayas National parks Guadalupe Mabugnao Mainit Hot Spring Natural parks Balinsasayao Twin Lakes Mount Kanlaon Natural monuments Chocolate Hills Protected landscapes Central Cebu Rajah Sikatuna Protected landscapes and seascapes Alburquerque-Loay-Loboc Apo Island Talibon Islands Protected seascapes Panglao Island Tañon Strait Game refuge and bird sanctuaries Olango Island Watershed forest reserves Alijawan-Cansuhay-Anibongan River Loboc River Wilderness areas Bantayan Island Caniago Strait Islands Cebu Strait Islands Protected areas of the Philippines v t e The 40 largest islands of the Philippines Alabat Balabac Basilan Biliran Bohol Bucas Grande Bugsuk Burias Busuanga Calayan Camiguin Camiguin de Babuyanes Cebu Catanduanes Culion Dinagat Dumaran Guimaras Jolo Leyte Lubang Luzon Masbate Marinduque Mindanao Mindoro Negros Olutanga Palawan Panaon Panay Polillo Samal Samar Siargao Sibuyan Siquijor Tablas Tawitawi Ticao Islands portal See also Geography of the Philippines Island groups of the Philippines List of islands Authority control : National Germany Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Panglao_Island&oldid=1129414723 " Categories : Islands of Bohol Bohol Sea Protected seascapes of the Philippines Beaches of the Philippines Tourist attractions in Bohol Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Use mdy dates from October 2022 Use Philippine English from October 2022 All Wikipedia articles written in Philippine English Coordinates on Wikidata Articles using infobox islands with additional info All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from November 2021 Commons category link from Wikidata Articles with GND identifiers Pages using the Kartographer extension This page was last edited on 25 December 2022, at 06:44 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0 ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement 