 Simatai - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Languages Language links are at the top of the page across from the title. Search Create account Log in Personal tools Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 General 2 Features 3 References Toggle the table of contents Toggle the table of contents Simatai 10 languages Deutsch Español Esperanto Français Bahasa Indonesia Italiano Norsk bokmål Svenska Українська 中文 Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Section of the Great Wall of China This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Simatai" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( July 2020 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this template message ) A stretch of the Great Wall at Simatai Another stretch of the Great Wall at Simatai Simatai ( Chinese : 司马台 ; pinyin : Sīmǎtái ), a section of the Great Wall of China located in the north of Miyun District , 120 km northeast of the city center of Beijing , holds the access to Gubeikou , a strategic pass in the eastern part of the Great Wall. It was closed in June 2010 but has been reopened to tourists since 2014. General [ edit ] The section was originally built during the Northern Qi dynasty (550–577) and rebuilt during the Hongwu Emperor 's reign during the Ming dynasty . Simatai Great Wall is 5.4 km long with 35 beacon towers. This section of the Great Wall incorporated the different characteristics of each section of the Great Wall. A specialist on the Great Wall, Professor Luo Zhewen, has said that "The Great Wall is the best of the Chinese buildings, and Simatai is the best of the Great Wall." [1] UNESCO has designated Simatai Great Wall as one of the World Cultural Heritage Sites as part of the Great Wall World Heritage Site. Simatai Great Wall is separated by a valley into eastern and western parts. The western part is gently sloped with 20 well-preserved watchtowers dotting along the wall. The eastern part is much steeper, following more rugged terrain that includes cliff edges and kilometre-high peaks. Hanging precariously onto the Yan Mountains , Simatai Great Wall is known for its steepness. Open-air gondolas provide a way to ascend partway up the wall. The 17 watchtowers are relatively closely spaced and have views of the surrounding area. Features [ edit ] A tower along the Simatai stretch of the Great Wall Tower 12- the last accessible tower, generally manned by a guard preventing access to the more dangerous sections further on. Tower 14 - 'Cat's Eye Tower' (Maoyan Lou; 猫眼楼) Heavenly Ladder: Climbing the mountainside at a steep 80-degree gradient, the Heavenly Ladder leads to the Fairy Tower. Stretching upward along the abrupt mountain ridges, the narrowest part is just half a meter wide. Tower 15 - 'Fairy Tower' (Xiannü Lou; 仙女楼): With a sculpture of twin lotus flowers above the arched doors, it is considered by many to be the most beautiful of all towers and is known for its architecture. Legend has it that it was the dwelling place for an antelope reincarnated in the form of an angel who fell in love with a shepherd. Sky Bridge: As little as 40 centimeters wide in places, this 100-meter-long segment of the wall connects the Fairy Tower to Watching Beijing Tower. Tower 16 - 'Watching-the-Capital Tower' (Wangjing Lou; 望京楼): At an elevation of 986 meters, it is regarded as the summit of the Simatai Great Wall as well as the highest cultural relic in Beijing. Its name comes from the fact that at night (with good visibility), one can see the lights of Beijing shimmering in the distance 120 km away. The bricks used to build the walls here are stamped with the date on which they were made and the code numbers of the armies that made them. Tower 17 - 'Gathering-of-the- Immortals Tower' (Juxian Lou; 聚仙楼) - accessible from the east, from the village of Tangjiazhai (唐家寨). References [ edit ] ^ Topping, Jeff (22 May 2010). "China's Wall of fame" . The National . Retrieved 12 July 2020 . Coordinates : 40°38′57.00″N 117°24′42.84″E ﻿ / ﻿ 40.6491667°N 117.4119000°E ﻿ / 40.6491667; 117.4119000 v t e Great Wall of China History Ming Great Wall Outer Wall (W to E) Jiayu Pass Jumenbu Badaling Huanghuacheng Jiankou ( Beijing Knot ) Mutianyu Baimaguan Gubeikou Jinshanling Simatai Huangya Pass Shanhai Pass Hushan Inner Wall (W to E) Guangwu ( New Guangwu ) Yanmen Pass Pingxing Pass Juyong Pass Other Niangzi Pass (Hebei/Shanxi border spur) Miaojiang Great Wall ("Southern Great Wall") Nine Garrisons Liaodong Ji Xuanfu Datong Taiyuan Yansui Ningxia Guyuan Gansu Other time periods Warring States (475–221 BC) Great Wall of Qi Western Han dynasty (202 BC–9 AD) Yumen Pass Yang Pass Yuan dynasty (1206-1368) Cloud Platform Qing dynasty (1644-1912) Dajingmen Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Simatai&oldid=1133396075 " Categories : Major National Historical and Cultural Sites in Beijing Great Wall of China Miyun District Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Articles needing additional references from July 2020 All articles needing additional references Articles containing Chinese-language text Coordinates on Wikidata This page was last edited on 13 January 2023, at 15:47 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0 ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement 