 Handsome (film) - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Languages Language links are at the top of the page across from the title. Search Create account Log in Personal tools Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Plot 2 Cast 3 Release 4 Notes 5 References 6 External links Toggle the table of contents Toggle the table of contents Handsome (film) 2 languages العربية مصرى Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 2017 film by Jeff Garlin Handsome Official release poster Directed by Jeff Garlin Written by Jeff Garlin Andrea Seigel Produced by Brad Morris Andrew Secunda Starring Jeff Garlin Natasha Lyonne Amy Sedaris Leah Remini Christine Woods Steven Weber Cinematography Jason Blount Edited by Jon Corn Music by Ben Folds Production company JZM Films Distributed by Netflix Release date May 5, 2017 ( 2017-05-05 ) Running time 81 minutes Country United States Language English Handsome (also known as Handsome: A Netflix Mystery Movie ) is a 2017 American comedy mystery film directed by Jeff Garlin and written by Garlin and Andrea Seigel . The film stars Garlin, Natasha Lyonne , Amy Sedaris , Leah Remini , Christine Woods and Steven Weber . It was released on Netflix on May 5, 2017. Plot [ edit ] LA police detective Gene Handsome visits the house of a new neighbor and meets her babysitter, Heather Dromgoole. The next day, Handsome and his partner, Fleur Scozzari, find Dromgoole has been murdered and dismembered outside the home of actor Talbert Bacorn in the shape of the Star of David . Bacorn claims that at the time of the murder, he was inside caring for his neighbor's dog and watching a TV rebroadcast of one of his early films. Handsome's neighbor, Nora, says Dromgoole was a good babysitter despite stealing several things. Handsome babysits Nora's daughter so Nora can go to work. When she returns, Nora tells Handsome Dromgoole had a roommate, Amanda. While interviewing Amanda, Handsome and Scozzari see an extravagant body lotion on Dromgoole's dresser. Amanda says she believes she received it from an older man, Nora's ex, Lloyd. Lloyd denies a sexual relationship, saying he was a father figure. The medical examiner tells Handsome Dromgoole's body contains traces of an expensive skincare cream and has a round depression in her skull. After examining Dromgoole's phone records, Handsome confronts Lloyd, who admits he hired Dromgoole to spy on his ex-wife. Handsome notices Lloyd's company's coffee table book , which contains a photograph of Dromgoole and Bacorn attending the same sponsored event. Nora visits Handsome and during a conversation they realize they have had the same dream about escaping their current lives to live in the country and care for dogs. Lloyd explains that the picture of Dromgoole and Bacorn was taken at a celebrity gala where he provided the fireworks and Dromgoole tagged along, pretending to be his assistant. Annoyed she could not take one of the " swag bags " given to celebrities at the event, which included expensive toiletries, she befriended Bacorn. When Handsome arrives at Bacorn's house to re-interview him, he discovers that the handles of the neighbor's tools contain traces of skincare cream. At Bacorn's house, Handsome notices that Bacorn is using the same brand of skincare cream as the lotion from Dromgoole's apartment. Bacorn says he received it and the body lotion at the party Dromgoole and he attended, and he gave the lotion to her. Handsome spots a large award in Bacorn's bedroom, something which could have caused Dromgoole's head injury. Handsome denigrates Bacorn's acting and he blows up, confirming Handsome's suspicion that Bacorn is prone to violent anger. Bacorn admits that Dromgoole and he had sex after the party, during which she ridiculed his acting. Bacorn killed her, then dismembered her using his neighbor's tools. He dumped her body on his own lawn, assuming no one would suspect him, too obvious. Bacorn attacks Handsome, but Scozzari arrives and saves him. Nora says they cannot date because she is moving to the country to work giving massages to dogs. Handsome returns to his regular routine. Cast [ edit ] Jeff Garlin as Gene Handsome Natasha Lyonne as Detective Fleur Scozzari Amy Sedaris as Lieutenant Tucker Leah Remini as Esta Christine Woods as Nora Vanderwheel Steven Weber as Talbert Bacorn Megan Ferguson as Amanda Dave Sheridan as The Sketchy Guy Josie Totah [a] as Charles Ava Acres as Carys Vanderwheel Chris Redd as Detective Gunner Timm Sharp as Lloyd Vanderwheel Hailee Keanna Lautenbach as Heather Dromgoole Eddie Pepitone as Durante Joe Kenda as Detective Joe Kaley Cuoco as herself Release [ edit ] On June 14, 2016, Netflix acquired distribution rights to the film, [1] and released it on their service on May 5, 2017. [2] Notes [ edit ] ^ Credited as J. J. Totah; she came out as transgender in 2018. References [ edit ] ^ Andreeva, Nellie (June 14, 2016). "Netflix Detective Comedy Film 'Handsome', Jeff Garlin Stars & Directs" . Deadline Hollywood . Retrieved April 7, 2017 . ^ Acevedo, Yoselin (March 21, 2017). "Handsome Trailer: Jeff Garlin is an Inept Detective in Netflix Comedy" . IndieWire . Retrieved April 7, 2017 . External links [ edit ] Handsome on Netflix Handsome at IMDb Handsome at Rotten Tomatoes Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Handsome_(film)&oldid=1145616693 " Categories : 2017 films 2017 comedy films 2010s comedy mystery films 2010s English-language films 2010s police comedy films American comedy mystery films American police detective films English-language Netflix original films Films directed by Jeff Garlin Films scored by Ben Folds Films set in Los Angeles Films shot in Los Angeles Murder mystery films 2010s American films Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Template film date with 1 release date Pages containing links to subscription-only content IMDb ID same as Wikidata This page was last edited on 20 March 2023, at 02:18 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0 ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement 