 Wojciech Jagielski - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Languages Language links are at the top of the page across from the title. Search Create account Log in Personal tools Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Life 2 Books 3 Honors and awards 4 References Toggle the table of contents Toggle the table of contents Wojciech Jagielski 6 languages Deutsch Español مصرى Polski Slovenčina Українська Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Polish journalist and author (born 1960) Wojciech Jagielski Wojciech Jagielski (born 12 September 1960) is a Polish journalist and author. He has won acclaim for his reportage from conflict zones in the Transcaucasus , the Caucasus , Central Asia and Africa . [1] He worked for the leading Polish newspaper Gazeta Wyborcza, from 1991 to 2012, in addition to contributing to the BBC and Le Monde . He has written several books, including Towers of Stone , winner of the Italian Literatura Frontera Award. [2] His latest book, All Lara's Wars , was published in English by Seven Stories Press in 2020. [3] Life [ edit ] Jagielski graduated from a Warsaw high school named after Wladyslaw IV. He earned a degree from the Faculty of Political Science at Warsaw University . He studied political science, but when the declaration of martial law in Poland in 1981 introduced the obligation to attend all classes, he chose individual programs and took up African studies. After graduation he briefly worked in television, then from December 1986 for the Polish Press Agency . He wanted to report on Africa, but the station managers were not too interested in this topic. From then, he decided that the Caucasus would become his second specialization. In 1991 he moved to the Gazeta Wyborcza , for which he wrote until the end of March 2012. He has also published several well-received books. He lives in Zalesie near Warsaw. [4] Books [ edit ] In 1994, Jagielski published A Good Place to Die (Dobre miejsce do umierania) about his years travelling through the Caucasus and Transcaucasian regions during the fall of the Soviet Empire and the creation of new independent countries. [2] Pray for the Rain (Modlitwa o deszcz), Jagielski's collection of writings about Afghanistan , was published in 2002. The result of eleven trips to Afghanistan between the spring of 1992 and the autumn of 2001, Pray for the Rain chronicles the bloody rise and fall of regimes in the region. Featuring well-known figures such as Osama bin Laden , Ahmad Shah Massoud , Gulbuddin Hekmatyar , Mullah Omar and Najibullah Zazi , the book was nominated for the NIKE Award 2003 and received an Amber Butterfly in the Arkady Fiedler Competition and the Józef Tischner Award. [2] In 2004, Jagielski published Towers of Stone: The Battle of Wills in Chechnya (Wieże z kamienia). It was translated into English by Soren A. Gauger and published by Seven Stories Press in 2009. The winner of the 2009 Letterature Dal Fronte, Jagielski presents the bitter story of war in Chechnya and the conflict between groups of warriors with their leaders: Shamil Basayev and Aslan Maskhadov , against the powerful Russian army. [2] Jagielski's next book to appear in English, The Night Wanderers: Uganda's Children and the Lord's Resistance Army (Nocni wędrowcy), was published by Seven Stories Press in 2012. [5] The book chronicles the plight of child soldiers in Uganda as they flee the aggressive reach of the Lord's Resistance Army (LRA) and their brutal leader Joseph Kony . In 2015, Seven Stories Press published Burning the Grass: At the Heart of Change in South Africa 1990-2011 , which examines the 2010 murder of South African white supremacist and leader of the far-right political party Afrikaner Weerstandsbeweging , Eugène Terre'Blanche . [6] [7] Jagielski's latest book to appear in English, All Lara's Wars , which studies the influence of the radical Islamic freedom fighters who had come to Georgia as refugees from the First and Second Chechen Wars , was published in 2020 by Seven Stories Press. [8] The book focuses on the plight of a Chechen-Georgian woman as she travels to Syria to bring her radicalized son home. [9] Honors and awards [ edit ] 2009: in recognition of his valuable and bold reporting of international issues, Radosław Sikorski , Minister of Foreign Affairs, awarded him with the Bene Merito honorary distinction. [10] Polish Journalists Association (SDP) Awards (1996) The Ksawery Pruszyński Award of Polish PEN Club (1996) The Warsaw Literary Premiere Award (2002) Dariusz Fikus Award (2002) Józef Tischner Award (2003) Amber Butterfly in Arkady Fiedler Competition (2003) MediaTory Student Journalist Award (2008) Literatura Frontera Award (2009) References [ edit ] ^ "Wojciech Jagielski" . Przekroj . ^ a b c d "Wojciech Jagielski" . Culture.pl . ^ Myers, Steven lee. "A Mother Who Tries to Rescue Her Sons From the Maws of War" . New York Times . ^ Journalist: Wojciech Jagielski , Gazeta Wyborcza ^ "The Night Wanderers" . Seven Stories Press . ^ "Burning the Grass" . Seven Stories Press . ^ Kępa, Marek. "Burning Grass - Wojciech Jagielski" . Culture.pl . ^ "All Lara's Wars" . Seven Stories Press . ^ "Globetrotting" . New York Times . ^ Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Poland Authority control International FAST ISNI VIAF WorldCat National Spain France BnF data Catalonia Germany Israel United States Czech Republic Netherlands Poland Other IdRef Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wojciech_Jagielski&oldid=1138313316 " Categories : Living people 1960 births 20th-century Polish male writers 20th-century Polish non-fiction writers Polish male non-fiction writers 21st-century Polish male writers 20th-century Polish journalists 21st-century Polish journalists 21st-century Polish non-fiction writers Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Articles with FAST identifiers Articles with ISNI identifiers Articles with VIAF identifiers Articles with WorldCat identifiers Articles with BNE identifiers Articles with BNF identifiers Articles with BNFdata identifiers Articles with CANTICN identifiers Articles with GND identifiers Articles with J9U identifiers Articles with LCCN identifiers Articles with NKC identifiers Articles with NTA identifiers Articles with PLWABN identifiers Articles with SUDOC identifiers This page was last edited on 9 February 2023, at 01:01 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0 ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement 