 Azrael's Tear - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Languages Language links are at the top of the page across from the title. Search Create account Log in Personal tools Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Plot 2 Development 3 Reception 4 References 5 External links Toggle the table of contents Toggle the table of contents Azrael's Tear 1 language Ladin Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Azrael's Tear" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( August 2017 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this template message ) 1996 video game Azrael's Tear Box Cover Art Developer(s) Intelligent Games Publisher(s) Mindscape Designer(s) Ken Haywood, Richard Guy Programmer(s) Martin Fermor Composer(s) Kerry Minnear , Ray Shulman Platform(s) MS-DOS Release EU : August 26, 1996 [1] NA : 1996 Genre(s) Adventure Mode(s) Single player Azrael's Tear is a 1996 first-person adventure game published by Mindscape and developed by Intelligent Games . Plot [ edit ] Taking place in 2012, the player assumes the role of a futuristic grave robber / archaeologist called a "raptor", who has come to explore a recently opened cavern in Scotland rumoured to contain the Holy Grail . Development [ edit ] Ken Haywood produced the original concept for the game and worked with Intelligent Games's own Richard Guy on the final design. The original design called for a Myst -style pre-rendered environment. As development progressed, the team switched to real-time 3D. The game features music written by Ray Shulman and Kerry Minnear , both former members of Gentle Giant . Reception [ edit ] Reception Review scores Publication Score GameSpot 5.6/10 [2] Next Generation [5] Arcane 7/10 [3] Just Adventure A− [4] PC Games A [6] Both GameSpot and Next Generation commented that the control interface is highly counterintuitive, especially the inverted cursor movement, and cannot be changed. [2] [5] GameSpot reviewer Tal Blevins opined that the game is otherwise well-worth playing, citing the atmospheric music, entertaining story, and good integration of the puzzles into the plot. He was particularly pleased with the graphic design, remarking that "the game is steeped in shadow that hides a subtle richness; it may take several game sessions for you to truly appreciate the brilliant artistic design included." [2] The Next Generation reviewer agreed that the story is gripping but was somewhat less impressed, summarizing, " Azrael's Tear brings adventure, high-resolution graphics, and a smattering of action to what is essentially a Myst clone, adding a little life - just a little - to a genre that sorely needs it." [5] Nicholas Petreley of InfoWorld wrote, " Azrael's Tear is not a crowd-pleaser, and I'm grateful for it. It is for those people who like to lose themselves in an entirely different world. If you're among that camp, prepare to enter the world of Azrael's Tear and rarely come up for air." [7] Andy Butcher reviewed Azrael's Tear for Arcane magazine, rating it a 7 out of 10 overall. [3] Butcher comments that "If you take the time to get into it [...] Azrael's Tear is atmospheric and extremely satisfying." [3] In a 2002 retrospective review for Just Adventure , Michael Necasek commented, "The story of Azrael's Tear revolves around props far from unusual in adventure games: the Holy Grail, the Knights Templar, secret conspiracies to rule the world. These all are almost clichés. But like other good games ( Gabriel Knight 3 comes to mind), Azrael's Tear manages to explain them with unexpected twists." [4] Azrael's Tear was not a commercial success. However, project leader Matthew Stibbe said in a presentation on the history of games that it is the only game he produced that got fan mail. [8] References [ edit ] ^ "Online Gaming Review" . Archived from the original on 1996-10-19 . Retrieved 2018-10-30 . ^ a b c Blevins, Tal (November 5, 1996). "Azrael's Tear - GameSpot" . GameSpot . Retrieved August 28, 2017 . ^ a b c Butcher, Andy (May 1996). "Games Reviews". Arcane . Future Publishing (6): 72. ^ a b Necasek, Michael (April 9, 2002). "Throwback Thursday: Azrael's Tear" . Just Adventure . Archived from the original on 7 January 2018 . Retrieved 7 January 2018 . ^ a b c "Azrael's Tear". Next Generation . No. 25. Imagine Media . January 1997. p. 182. ^ Olafson, Peter (July 1996). " Azrael's Tear " . PC Games . Archived from the original on 1996-10-18 . Retrieved 2018-10-30 . ^ Petreley, Nicholas (November 25, 1996). "Down to the Wire; The Mystique of the Holy Grail is a powerful Nemesis to doing work". InfoWorld . 18 (48): 82. ^ Stibbe, Matthew. "Azrael's Tear: the best adventure game you've never heard of" . GeekBoss . Retrieved November 21, 2019 . External links [ edit ] Azrael's Tear at MobyGames Authority control : National France BnF data Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Azrael%27s_Tear&oldid=1106270698 " Categories : 1996 video games Adventure games DOS games DOS-only games Video games developed in the United Kingdom Video games set in Scotland First-person adventure games Mindscape games Hidden categories: Articles needing additional references from August 2017 All articles needing additional references Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Articles using Infobox video game using locally defined parameters Articles using Wikidata infoboxes with locally defined images Articles using Video game reviews template in single platform mode Articles with BNF identifiers Articles with BNFdata identifiers This page was last edited on 23 August 2022, at 22:23 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0 ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement 