 Mordecai Shehori - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Languages Language links are at the top of the page across from the title. Search Create account Log in Personal tools Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Biography 2 References 3 Reviews of Concerts 4 Reviews of Recordings 5 External links Toggle the table of contents Toggle the table of contents Mordecai Shehori Add languages Add links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Mordecai Shehori, pianist Mordecai Shehori (born 20 April 1946) is an Israeli-American pianist. Biography [ edit ] Shehori was born in Israel and studied in Tel Aviv with Mindru Katz , whom he cites as his most influential teacher. [1] At the age of nine he gave his first public performance. Later he received first prize in the Beethoven Competition [2] and received the American Israel Cultural Foundation Award. In New York, he studied with Claude Frank at the Mannes College of Music and graduated from the Juilliard School . Shehori made his New York debut after winning the 1974 Jeunesses Musicales Competition. [2] He concertises in the United States, Canada, and Europe and has performed at various music festivals and at the White House . He has given 27 different recital programs in New York in as many years. His commercial recordings for Connoisseur Society and Cembal d'amour include music by Beethoven , Chopin , Scarlatti , Liszt , Rameau , Rachmaninoff , and many others. He is a two-time recipient of the La Gesse Foundation Award, and is listed on the roster of Steinway & Sons. From 1971 to 1982, Shehori was piano teacher to Isaac and Vera Stern's children. In spite of that In 2014, Shehori has stated that Stern used his total control of the music world as the president of Carnegie Hall to dictate managements, presenters, record companies who he approves and who according to him should NOT have a career in music. He attempted to sabotage Shehori's career, as he did with the great violinists David Nadien, Berl Senofsky, Aaron Rosand, Shmuel Askenazi and many others, exerting huge and insulting pressure on Shehori's family to force him to return to Israel and by blocking any possibility of Shehori making a living as a concert pianist. [3] In February 1987, Shehori assisted Vladimir Horowitz in preparing Mozart's Piano Concerto K.488, playing the orchestral reduction on second piano, while Horowitz played the concerto's solo part. This took place in the basement of Steinway & Sons in New York City. [4] Later that year, Horowitz traveled to Milan and recorded the concerto for Deutsche Grammophon with the La Scala Theater Orchestra conducted by Carlo Maria Giulini . [5] Horowitz was so pleased with Shehori's accompaniment that he began to invite him to his home on East 94th Street. Shehori spent many evenings with the Horowitzes. [6] Shehori acted as page turner for Horowitz in what turned out to be the sessions for his final recording in Horowitz's New York home from October 24, 1989 to November 1, 1989. Horowitz died just a few days later, on November 5, 1989. Shehori has cited his friendship and artistic collaboration with Vladimir Horowitz as a significant source of knowledge and inspiration. “Mordecai Shehori’s concert served as a welcome reminder that there is a place for originality in re-creations of classical materials.” The New York Times Making a Lost Style Speak to Today’s Ears (Headline) "Mr. Shehori readings are a fascinating reminder that the largely vanished performance style he has espouse took in not only bombastic, flashy playing, but also the gentlest and sweetest of pianissimos.” The New York Times “Mordecai Shehori is a musician’s musician—that is, a sort of pianist whom it will profit other pianists to study. But there is no reason why the general public shouldn't know of him, too, for he brings unity, proportion, intelligence and sensitivity to all that he plays." New York Newsday Shehori: Poetry in Music (Headline) "Shehori’s temperament seems to hunt out the poetry in musical form, the spiritual content of each score." The Washington Post “Shehori is rock solid and deeply musical. This is a big—hearted interpretation, with a beautiful variety of tone colour and a sense of empathy with the composer." BBC Music Magazine “Everything he tackled on this formidable program emerged Colorful and brightly characterized, the combination of great confidence, a lively imagination, and excellent technique." The Boston Globe "Shehori is a man with exceptional gifts. Technically he is extremely accomplished, although this facility is always employed to serve his larger musical goals. As well, there is always a concern on Shehori's part for the architectural design of the music and the need to impart this message to the listener." The Gazette, Montreal “Mordecai Shehori is a marvelous pianist in almost every conceivable category. Indeed, if elegance had a middle name, it would be Shehori. At last here is a pianist who not only understand the power of gentleness but puts it to work at every opportunity. Though it goes without saying that is technique is impeccable, something more is afoot when he plays, as he found a way to harness the storm before the calm.” American Record Guide “If one titles his Liszt recital “Love and the Devil” he’d better play like the Devil—and Shehori does. Color, voltage, and volatility dissolve Liszt’s glittering sound masses so fluently into surges of sheer expressiveness that the piano seems an extension of Shehori’s antic disposition….Mephisto’s scraping enchantments, for once, evince genuine seductiveness, sensual magic.” Fanfare Magazine Mordecai Shehori, The Celebrated New York Concerts Vol 2 (2007 Cembal d'Amour) References [ edit ] ^ Interview with Mordecai Shehori by Victor Eskenasy, Suplimentul de cultura, June 2008 (in Romanian) Part 1 [ permanent dead link ] Part 2 [ permanent dead link ] ^ a b David Dubal, Remembering Horowitz - 125 Pianists Recall a Legend (paperback), Schirmer Books, 1993, pg 240. ISBN 0-02-860269-2 ^ Mordecai Shehori (2014-07-11). "New memoir: 'Isaac Stern tried to expel me from the US' " . Slipped Disc blog . Retrieved 2014-07-28 . ^ David Dubal, Remembering Horowitz - 125 Pianists Recall a Legend (paperback), Schirmer Books, 1993, pg 241. ISBN 0-02-860269-2 ^ Harold C. Schonberg, Horowitz: His Life and Music, Simon & Schuster , 1992, pg 305. ISBN 0-671-72568-8 ^ Harold C. Schonberg, Horowitz: His Life and Music, Simon & Schuster, 1992, pg 304. ISBN 0-671-72568-8 Reviews of Concerts [ edit ] Ericson, Raymond, et al. (1974). "Music in Review; Israeli Pianist in Debut Here" New York Times . March 24. (1976). "Mordecai Shehori Gives Piano Recital" New York Times . June 3. Ericson, Raymond (1979). "Piano Recital: Shehori Plays Three Sonatas". New York Times . May 26. Page, Tim (1984). "Music: Mordecai Shehori" New York Times . May 18. Rivers, Kate (1984). "Shehori: Poetry in Music" The Washington Post . November 3. Kimmelman, Michael (1987). "Recital: Mordecai Shehori, Pianist, At Merkin Hall." New York Times . May 22. Crutchfield, Will (1989). "Review/Piano; Hearing More Than Beethoven Set Down." New York Times . June 9. Henahan, Donal (1990). "Review/Piano; A Recitalist to Undermine a Critic." New York Times . May 9. Holland, Bernard (1995). "In Performance; Classical Music - A Pianist Reconciles 2 Composers' Contrasts" New York Times . June 12. Kozinn, Allan (1997). "Classical Music in Review: Signs of a Poet, And a Daredevil" New York Times . May 22. Kozinn, Allan (2003). "Music in Review: Classical Music; Making a Lost Style Speak to Today's Ears" New York Times . June 17. Schultz, Rick (2007). "A touch of Horowitz amid patter and pooches" Los Angeles Times . June 12. Reviews of Recordings [ edit ] Kozinn, Allan (1991). "Record Brief - D. Scarlatti: Keyboard Sonatas (6); Beethoven: Piano Sonata No. 3; Brahms: Paganini Variations (Op. 35) Mordecai Shehori, piano. Connoisseur Society CD4177; CD." New York Times . September 29. Duchen, Jessica. "Schubert/Liszt/Fauré, Mordecai Shehori (piano)" BBC Music Magazine . [ permanent dead link ] Distler, Jed. "Review: Learning by Example Volume 2." Classicstoday.com . Distler, Jed. "The New York Recitals Volume 1." Classicstoday.com . Turok, Paul. "Turok's Choice - April 2001" Andante.com . Lemco, Gary (July 2002). "Liszt: Love and the Devil" Audiophile Audition . Woolf, Jonathan (December 2002). "Classical CD Review - Rameau Mordecai Shehori, piano" Musicweb-International.com . Woolf, Jonathan (January 2003). "Classical CD Review - New York Recitals Volume 1 Mordecai Shehori, piano" Musicweb-International.com . Woolf, Jonathan (February 2003). "Classical CD Review - Franz Liszt Volume 1 Mordecai Shehori, piano" Musicweb-International.com . Woolf, Jonathan (April 2003). "Classical CD Review - Bach arr. Siloti, Handel, Beethoven, Chopin, Schubert arr. Liszt, Liszt Mordecai Shehori, piano" Musicweb-International.com . Woolf, Jonathan (March 2006). "Classical CD Review - Mozart, Beethoven, Chopin, Liszt Mordecai Shehori, piano" Musicweb-International.com . Brownell, Mike (January 2008). "The Celebrated New York Concerts - Vol 2" Allmusicguide.com . Woolf, Jonathan (March 2008). "Classical CD Review - Celebrated New York Concerts Volume 2 Mordecai Shehori, piano" Musicweb-International.com . Woolf, Jonathan (June 2008). "Mordecai Shehori Learning by Example Vols 1-3" Musicweb-International.com . Woolf, Jonathan (June 2008). "The Celebrated New York Concerts Volume 3 Mordecai Shehori, piano" Musicweb-International.com . Haylock, Julian (July 2008). "The Celebrated New York Concerts Volume 3 Mordecai Shehori, piano" International Piano Magazine . Lemco, Gary (July 2008). "The Celebrated New York Concerts Volume 2" Audiophile Audition . Lemco, Gary (January 2009). "The Celebrated New York Concerts Volume 3" Audiophile Audition . Woolf, Jonathan (February 2009). "CD Review - Mordecai Shehori plays Schumann & Liszt" Musicweb-International.com . Lemco, Gary (July 2009). "Shehori plays Mozart" Audiophile Audition . Lemco, Gary (September 2009). "Shehori plays Russian Music" Audiophile Audition . Lemco, Gary (June 2010). "BACH-BUSONI: Ten Chorale-Preludes; Chaconne in D Minor, from BWV 1004; Organ Toccata in C Major, BWV 564 - Mordecai Shehori, piano" Audiophile Audition . Lemco, Gary (September 2010). "Moscheles and Fetis: 'Methode des Methodes' - Mordecai Shehori, piano" Audiophile Audition . Lemco, Gary (January 2011). "Chopin Volume I: 19 Waltzes - Mordecai Shehori, piano" Audiophile Audition . External links [ edit ] Bach Cantatas.com page on Mordecai Shehori Commercial discography of Mordecai Shehori Biographical notes on Mordecai Shehori The Papers of Vladimir and Wanda Toscanini Horowitz Irving S. Gilmore Music Library, Yale University. Photographs of Horowitz taken by Mordecai Shehori Article by Mordecai Shehori describing his friendship and artistic collaboration with Vladimir Horowitz [ permanent dead link ] David Dubal interview with Mordecai Shehori (1 of 2) , WNCN-FM, 6-Feb-1981 David Dubal interview with Mordecai Shehori (2 of 2) , WNCN-FM, 22-Jan-1982 La Gesse Foundation Award past winners Steinway Artists roster Authority control : Artists MusicBrainz Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Mordecai_Shehori&oldid=1010166879 " Categories : Israeli classical pianists American classical pianists Male classical pianists American male pianists Living people 1946 births Jewish classical pianists 20th-century American pianists 21st-century classical pianists 20th-century American male musicians 21st-century American male musicians 21st-century American pianists Hidden categories: All articles with dead external links Articles with dead external links from February 2018 Articles with permanently dead external links Articles with dead external links from April 2019 Articles with MusicBrainz identifiers This page was last edited on 4 March 2021, at 03:22 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0 ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement 