 Denver Water - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Languages Language links are at the top of the page across from the title. Search Create account Log in Personal tools Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Overview 2 History Toggle History subsection 2.1 Lead service pipes 3 See also 4 References 5 External links Toggle the table of contents Toggle the table of contents Denver Water Add languages Add links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Water utility in Colorado This article relies excessively on references to primary sources . Please improve this article by adding secondary or tertiary sources . Find sources: "Denver Water" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( April 2019 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this template message ) This article contains content that is written like an advertisement . Please help improve it by removing promotional content and inappropriate external links , and by adding encyclopedic content written from a neutral point of view . ( November 2018 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this template message ) Dillon Reservoir , Denver's largest water storage facility Denver Water is a public water utility that serves the City and County of Denver, Colorado , and a portion of its surrounding suburbs. Established in 1918, the utility is funded by water rates and new tap fees, not taxes. It is Colorado's oldest and largest water utility. [1] Overview [ edit ] Denver Water's primary water sources are the South Platte River , Blue River , Williams Fork and Fraser River watersheds, but it also uses water from the South Boulder Creek , Ralston Creek and Bear Creek watersheds. [2] History [ edit ] The first residents of the Denver area drank water directly from nearby creeks and rivers. Surface wells and buckets of water sufficed for a while as a delivery system, but they soon proved inadequate. Irrigation ditches were the next step forward. [3] In 1870, the community was growing at a rapid rate. To keep up with demand from the area's 5,000 residents, the Denver City Water Company was formed. In 1872, with a large well, a steam pump and four miles (6 km) of mains, Denver City Water Company began to provide water to homes. Over the next two decades, 10 water companies fought, collapsed or merged. Several companies merged, and in 1894, the Denver Union Water Company—predecessor of Denver Water—emerged to establish a stable system. In 1918, Denver residents voted to form a five-member Board of Water Commissioners and buy the Denver Union Water Company's water system for $14 million, creating Denver Water. From that time on, Denver Water planned and developed a system to meet the needs of the people of Denver and the surrounding areas. [3] [4] Flash floods between 1996 and 2002 led to erosion and damage to Denver's reservoirs. This erosion was exacerbated by insects and disease in the 1990s that had weakened forests. To address this, Denver Water began replanting mountainsides with drought-resistant trees in order to better maintain its waterways. [5] Lead service pipes [ edit ] Lead pipes were used to hook homes to water mains until the World War II era. Although lead pipes were banned in 1971, Denver Water officials estimate that there are between 64,000 and 84,000 homes still being serviced with lead pipes. A $500 million program to replace them is proceeding as of 2021 at the rate of about 5,000 homes a year. Whether a particular address has a lead service line may be searched for on a page on the Denver Water website . [6] See also [ edit ] Colorado Public Utilities Commission References [ edit ] ^ "About Us" . Denver Water . Retrieved August 1, 2017 . ^ "Collection System" . Denver Water . Retrieved August 1, 2017 . ^ a b "History" . Denver Water . Retrieved August 1, 2017 . ^ "From high in the Rockies to the South Platte, here's where Denver gets its water" . Denverite . Retrieved February 8, 2023 . ^ Velasquez-Manoff, Moises; Khosravani, Andrew (April 25, 2019). "Can Humans Help Trees Outrun Climate Change?" . The New York Times . Retrieved March 26, 2020 . ^ Conrad Swanson (June 11, 2021). "Denver Water is replacing decades-old toxic lead pipes faster than expected The $500 million program replacing lines for up to 84,000 homes, likely to take 15 years" . The Denver Post . Retrieved June 11, 2021 . In late 2019. the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency approved Denver Water's replacement plan on a trial basis. The idea is to map out and replace all the lead service lines in town within 15 years and at an estimated cost of about $500 million. External links [ edit ] Official website Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Denver_Water&oldid=1138260760 " Categories : Denver metropolitan area Government of Denver Water companies of the United States Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Articles lacking reliable references from April 2019 All articles lacking reliable references Use mdy dates from August 2017 Articles with a promotional tone from November 2018 All articles with a promotional tone This page was last edited on 8 February 2023, at 19:48 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0 ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement 