 Slater Mill Historic Site - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Languages Language links are at the top of the page across from the title. Search Create account Log in Personal tools Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Architectural history 2 From mill to museum 3 See also 4 References 5 External links Toggle the table of contents Toggle the table of contents Slater Mill Historic Site Add languages Add links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia United States historic place Old Slater Mill U.S. National Register of Historic Places U.S. National Historic Landmark Location Roosevelt Avenue, Pawtucket, Rhode Island Coordinates 41°52′39″N 71°22′57″W ﻿ / ﻿ 41.87750°N 71.38250°W ﻿ / 41.87750; -71.38250 Coordinates : 41°52′39″N 71°22′57″W ﻿ / ﻿ 41.87750°N 71.38250°W ﻿ / 41.87750; -71.38250 Area 4.23 acres (1.71 ha) [1] Built 1793 NRHP reference No. 66000001 Significant dates Added to NRHP November 13, 1966 [2] Designated NHL November 13, 1966 [3] The Slater Mill is a historic water-powered textile mill complex on the banks of the Blackstone River in Pawtucket, Rhode Island , modeled after cotton spinning mills first established in England. It is the first water-powered cotton spinning mill in America to utilize the Arkwright system of cotton spinning as developed by Richard Arkwright . The mill's founder Samuel Slater apprenticed as a young man with industrialist Jedediah Strutt in Belper , England. Shortly after emigrating to the United States, Slater was hired by Moses Brown of Providence, Rhode Island to produce a working set of machines necessary to spin cotton yarn using water power. Construction of the machines was completed in 1793, as well as a dam, waterway, waterwheel, and mill. Manufacturing was based on Arkwright's cotton spinning system, which included carding, drawing, and spinning machines. Slater initially hired children and families to work in his mill, establishing a pattern that was replicated throughout the Blackstone Valley and known as the " Rhode Island System ". It was later eclipsed by Francis Cabot Lowell 's Waltham System . The mill and surrounding area were the site of early labor resistance, including the first factory strike in the United States, which was led by young women workers in 1824. [4] Slater Mill was added to the National Register of Historic Places and designated a National Historic Landmark on November 13, 1966, the first property to be listed on the register. [1] [3] In December 2014, the mill was added to the newly formed Blackstone River Valley National Historical Park . Architectural history [ edit ] The original portion of the Slater Mill built in 1793 was six bays long and two stories tall. Several additions were made beginning in 1801, and a second added in 1835. Between 1869 and 1872, a large addition was made to the north end of the mill. Cotton spinning continued until 1895, after which the mill was used for various industrial purposes until 1923. The building had suffered numerous fires in the past, and two fires occurred in 1912 which precipitated awareness of the building and the need for its preservation. From mill to museum [ edit ] In 1921, the non-profit Old Slater Mill Association was founded with the purpose of saving the historic Mill. Efforts to restore the mill began in 1923; modern additions to the structure were removed, restoring the mill to its 1835 appearance. In 1955, it opened as a museum. Restoration of the nearby Wilkinson Mill (built 1810–1811) was completed in 1978 as part of the Slater Mill site. [5] The Slater Mill site now serves as a museum, educational center, and music venue, which "celebrates innovation and the entrepreneurial spirit by engaging audiences in relevant cultural, historic, and artistic endeavors". It includes five acres of land on both sides of the Blackstone River, a dam on the river, two historic mills (the Slater Mill and Wilkinson Mill), and the Sylvanus Brown House (built in 1758 but moved to the site in the 1960s). [6] The Slater Mill and other key buildings that are part of the Old Slater Mill Historic District were acquired by the National Park Service in 2021. [7] Slater Mill (1793) A spinning mule in Slater Mill Wilkinson Mill (1810–11) Sylvanus Brown House View of the site The Wilkinson Machine Shop See also [ edit ] Rhode Island portal Hannah Slater Samuel Slater David Wilkinson Blackstone River Valley National Heritage Corridor Derwent Valley Mills National Register of Historic Places listings in Pawtucket, Rhode Island List of National Historic Landmarks in Rhode Island References [ edit ] ^ a b Blanche Higgins Schroer (September 15, 1975) National Register of Historic Places Inventory-Nomination: Old Slater Mill / Old Slater Mill; Slater Mill Historic Site , National Park Service and Accompanying 6 images, including print from ca. 1812, drawing from 1907, and photos from 1973 and 1974 and undated ^ "National Register Information System" . National Register of Historic Places . National Park Service . January 23, 2007. ^ a b "Old Slater Mill" . National Historic Landmark summary listing . National Park Service. Archived from the original on October 7, 2012 . Retrieved June 29, 2008 . ^ DeFrancesco, Joey La Neve (2018). "Pawtucket, America's First Factory Strike" . jacobinmag.com . Retrieved May 6, 2022 . ^ Creer, Philip D. (April 10, 1942). "Slater's Mill, supplemental information" (PDF) . Historic American Buildings Survey . Washington, D.C.: Library of Congress. p. 1 . Retrieved January 30, 2015 . ^ "Slater Mill" . Retrieved September 30, 2016 . ^ DaSilva, Melanie (January 26, 2021). "Slater Mill acquired by US National Park Service" . WPRI.com . Retrieved January 27, 2021 . External links [ edit ] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Slater Mill Historic Site . Official website Historic American Buildings Survey (HABS) No. RI-82, " Slater Mill, Off Main Street on Blackstone River, Pawtucket, Providence County, RI ", 2 photos, supplemental material Historic American Engineering Record (HAER) No. RI-1, " Slater Mill, Pawtucket, Providence County, RI ", 64 photos, 6 color transparencies, 24 measured drawings, 53 data pages, 6 photo caption pages Providence Journal video of Slater Mill Historic Site Providence Journal video of the Blackstone River Site about Slater and his mill Pawtucket Arts Festival v t e U.S. National Register of Historic Places Topics Architectural style categories Contributing property Historic district History of the National Register of Historic Places Keeper of the Register National Park Service Property types Lists by state List of U.S. National Historic Landmarks by state : Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Lists by insular areas American Samoa Guam Minor Outlying Islands Northern Mariana Islands Puerto Rico Virgin Islands Lists by associated state Federated States of Micronesia Marshall Islands Palau Other areas District of Columbia American Legation, Morocco Related National Historic Preservation Act Historic Preservation Fund List of jails and prisons on the National Register of Historic Places University and college buildings listed on the National Register of Historic Places National Register of Historic Places portal Category v t e Textile museums North America American Textile History Museum Antique Gas and Steam Engine Museum Augusta Canal Discovery Center at Enterprise Mill Belknap Mill Museum Boott Mills Brigham City Museum-Gallery Cooper-Hewitt Costume Museum of Canada Cotton Museum Embroidery Museum and Resource Center The Fabric Workshop and Museum Fashion Institute of Design & Merchandising Museum Hat and Fragrance Textile Gallery International Quilt Study Center Kansas City Garment District Museum Lowell National Historical Park Marie Webster House Metropolitan Museum of Art Mission Mill Museum The Museum at FIT Museum L-A Museum of Work and Culture National Quilt Museum Rocky Mountain Quilt Museum Ruth Funk Center for Textile Arts San Jose Museum of Quilts & Textiles Slater Mill Historic Site Stillwater Mill Southeastern Quilt & Textile Museum Textile Museum (Washington, D.C.) Textile Museum of Canada Watkins Woolen Mill State Park and State Historic Site Western Reserve Historical Society Wile Carding Mill Willamette Heritage Center Windham Textile and History Museum Central America Ixchel Museum of Indigenous Textiles and Clothing Europe Bielsko-Biała Museum Blackburn Museum and Art Gallery Bocholt textile museum Central Museum of Textiles, Łódź Centre National du Costume de Scene Costume Museum (Kastoria) Devonshire Collection of Period Costume Ethnographic Museum (Belgrade) Fashion and Textile Museum Fashion Museum, Bath Galleria del Costume Helmshore Mills Textile Museum Killerton Kunstgewerbemuseum Berlin Museum of Ayrshire Country Life and Costume Musée des Tissus et des Arts décoratifs de Lyon Museum of Domestic Design and Architecture Museum of Jewellery in the Silver Way Museum of the History of the Greek Costume Museum of the Romanian Peasant Museo del Traje National Museum of Costume National Museum of Costume and Fashion Nordwolle Factory Museum Nottingham Industrial Museum Prato textile museum Quarry Bank Mill Queen Street Textile Museum Textilfabrik Cromford Victoria and Albert Museum Wigan Pier Asia Azerbaijan Carpet Museum Bhutan Textile Museum Bsous Silk Museum Calico Museum of Textiles Carpet Museum of Iran Chojun Textile & Quilt Art Museum Kurdish Textile Museum Lok Virsa Museum Islamabad , Pakistan National Handicrafts and Handlooms Museum National Textile Museum Queen Sirikit Museum of Textiles Sanskriti Textile Museum Textile Museum (Jakarta) Yokohama Silk Museum Related topics Textile museum Design museum Authority control International VIAF WorldCat National Israel United States Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Slater_Mill_Historic_Site&oldid=1147046049 " Categories : 1793 establishments in Rhode Island Buildings and structures in Pawtucket, Rhode Island Cotton mills in the United States Historic American Buildings Survey in Rhode Island Historic American Engineering Record in Rhode Island History of the textile industry Industrial archaeological sites in the United States Industrial buildings and structures on the National Register of Historic Places in Rhode Island Industrial buildings completed in 1793 Industrial Revolution Industry museums in Rhode Island Mill museums in the United States Museums established in 1955 Museums in Providence County, Rhode Island National Historic Landmarks in Rhode Island National Register of Historic Places in Pawtucket, Rhode Island Textile machinery manufacturers Textile museums in Rhode Island Tourist attractions in Pawtucket, Rhode Island 1955 establishments in Rhode Island Blackstone River Valley National Historical Park Hidden categories: Articles using NRISref without a reference number Use mdy dates from August 2016 Articles with short description Short description with empty Wikidata description Coordinates on Wikidata Commons category link from Wikidata Articles with VIAF identifiers Articles with WorldCat identifiers Articles with J9U identifiers Articles with LCCN identifiers This page was last edited on 28 March 2023, at 14:36 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0 ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement 