 The Right Reverend Carolyn Tyler-Guidry Church African Methodist Episcopal Church Installed 2004 Term ended 2012 Orders Ordination 1977 Personal details Born August 25, 1937 Jackson, Mississippi Denomination African Methodist Episcopal Church Spouse Cary Tyler, Don Guidry Occupation Bishop in the African Methodist Episcopal Church Alma mater Fuller Theological Seminary Carolyn Tyler-Guidry , a bishop of the African Methodist Episcopal Church was the first woman appointed to be a presiding elder in the Fifth Episcopal District of the AME Church and the second woman to become a bishop in the denomination. Biography [ edit ] Tyler-Guidry was born on August 25, 1937, in Jackson , Mississippi . [1] Tyler-Guidry attended J.P. Campbell College in Jackson and received an Associate of Arts Degree in Business and Secretarial Science degree. She then began working for the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People. Tyler-Guidry held the women's voter registration chair. In 1964, she was hired by the Security Pacific Bank in California where she worked for twelve years. In 1977, Tyler-Guidry attended the Los Angeles Bible School to pursue the path of ministry, and was ordained as an itinerant Elder that year. [2] Tyler-Guidry then served as the pastor of the First African Methodist Episcopal (A.M.E.) Church in Indio, California , [3] where she oversaw renovations to the church and parsonage, and the creation of a day care center. In 1983, she was appointed to the Cain Memorial A.M.E. Church in Bakersfield, California , where she served for five years. Cary B. Tyler, her first husband, died in 1988. [4] In 1989, Tyler-Guidry became the first female to be appointed to a major metropolitan church when she was appointed to the Walker Temple A.M.E. Church, with 600 members, in Los Angeles. In 1994, she became the first female appointed to presiding elder in the Fifth Episcopal District. In this role she oversaw 19 churches in Los Angeles. [4] [2] Tyler-Guidry ran for election for bishop in 1996 and 2000; while her first two efforts were unsuccessful, her willingness to stand for election helped raise visibility for women clergy. In 2000, Vashti Murphy McKensie become the first woman elected bishop in the A.M.E. Church. [5] In July 2004, Tyler-Guidry became the second woman to be elected as bishop in the A.M.E. Church. [6] [7] [8] That same year, she received her master's of theology from Fuller Theological Seminary. [9] Upon her election as bishop, Tyler-Guidry was appointed to serve as the presiding prelate of the 16th Episcopal district of the AME Church, comprising Suriname, Guyana, the Windward Islands, the Virgin Islands, the Dominican Republic, Haiti, Jamaica, Cuba and London, England. Not long after she was appointed, Hurricane Ivan caused severe damage in the region, especially in Jamaica and the Dominican Republic, which made her first months in office very hectic. [10] In 2008, at the 48th Quadrennial Session of the General Conference of the AME Church, she was appointed to serve as bishop of the 8th Episcopal District, which comprises the US states of Louisiana and Mississippi. She retired in 2012. [11] [12] In addition to her ministry in the church, she has been actively involved in charitable and non-profit organizations. Tyler-Guidry served as the secretary on the board of the John F. Kennedy Hospital in Indio, president of the Riverside County Board of Mental Health, and Treasurer of the national board of One Church One Child. [1] She is also a member of Sigma Gamma Rho sorority. Tyler-Guidry is the widow of Donovan Guidry, a retired officer in the United States Army, who died in June 2007 after a lengthy illness. She is the mother of six children, grandmother of thirteen and great-grandmother of eleven. [1] References [ edit ] ^ a b c "Bishop Carolyn Tyler Guidry's Biography" . The HistoryMakers . Retrieved 2020-02-11 . ^ a b "Board of Directors | Bishop Sarah Davis Foundation" . www.bishopsarahdavisfoundation.org . Retrieved 2020-02-11 . ^ Murray, Virgie W. (July 8, 2004). "AME's Elect C.T. Guidry". Los Angeles Sentinel . ^ a b "New A.M.E. Bishop Will Take International Post" . Los Angeles Times . 2004-07-17 . Retrieved 2020-02-11 . ^ Goodstein, Laurie (2000-07-09). "A.M.E. Church May Elect Its First Woman as Bishop" . The New York Times . ISSN 0362-4331 . Retrieved 2020-02-11 . ^ "NEWS STORY: AME Church Adds to Number of Women Bishops" . Religion News Service . 2004-07-07 . Retrieved 2020-02-11 . ^ "The 50 Most Intriguing Blacks of 2004". Ebony : 84. November 2004 – via Google Books. ^ services, Tribune news. "3 Africans among new AME bishops" . chicagotribune.com . Retrieved 2020-02-11 . ^ Westhead, Sara. "AME church makes history | The Royal Gazette:Bermuda Lifestyle" . The Royal Gazette . Retrieved 2020-02-11 . ^ Ginyard, Tiffany (July 2008). "Female A.M.E. Bishops Elected in 2004 Discuss their First Term". New York Amsterdam News . ^ Church, A. M. E. "Bishops of The Church" . AME Church . Retrieved 2020-02-11 . ^ Dickerson, Dennis (2002). The African Methodist Church: A History . Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. p. 520. ISBN 0521191521 . See also [ edit ] The History Makers webpage. About Presiding Reverend Carolyn E. Tyler-Guidry on the official AME website. v t e U.S. Black church denominations and leaders General themes Religion in Black America Historically African-American Christian denominations Clergy Methodist African Methodist Episcopal Church John Adams Sr. Richard Allen Sarah Allen Benjamin W. Arnett George Lincoln Blackwell Morris Brown Jamal Harrison Bryant John Richard Bryant Richard H. Cain Archibald Carey Jr. Daniel Coker James H. Cone James Levert Davis Jordan Winston Early Orishatukeh Faduma Floyd Flake Carolyn Tyler Guidry Sarah E. Gorham William H. Heard Reginald Jackson Henrietta Phelps Jeffries Absalom Jones Ben Kinchlow Vashti Murphy McKenzie Biddy Mason Lena Doolin Mason Robert Meacham Lyman S. Parks Daniel Payne Charles H. Pearce Clementa C. Pinckney William Paul Quinn Reverdy Cassius Ransom Richard Henry Singleton Charles Spencer Smith Theophilus Gould Steward Henry McNeal Turner William Tecumseh Vernon D. Ormonde Walker Lewis Woodson African Methodist Episcopal Zion Church William H. Day Julia A. J. Foote James Walker Hood Thomas James Singleton T. Jones John Kinard Jermain Wesley Loguen John E. Price William Henry Singleton John Bryan Small Mary J. Small Jeffery Tribble James Varick Alexander Walters A.U.M.P. Church Peter Spencer Christian Methodist Episcopal Church William Yancy Bell William H. Miles Baptist Dexter Avenue Baptist Church Vernon Johns Martin Luther King Jr. First African Baptist Church (Richmond, Virginia) Lucy Goode Brooks First African Baptist Church (Savannah, Georgia) David George Full Gospel Baptist Church Fellowship Paul S. Morton Lott Carey Foreign Mission Convention Clinton Caldwell Boone Lott Cary National Baptist Convention, USA, Inc. Stewart Cleveland Cureton Joseph H. Jackson T. J. Jemison Willie James Jennings Henry Lyons Benjamin Mays W. J. Simmons National Baptist Convention of America, Inc. R. H. Boyd National Missionary Baptist Convention of America S. M. Lockridge Progressive National Baptist Convention Ralph Abernathy William Augustus Jones Jr. Martin Luther King Jr. Gardner C. Taylor United American Free Will Baptist Church Benjamin Randall Pentecostal Apostolic Assemblies of Christ Apostolic Faith Church ( William J. Seymour ) Church of God in Christ ( Charles Edward Blake Sr. Andraé Crouch Sandra Crouch Robert Michael Franklin Jr. Samuel Green Jr. Edwin Hawkins O. T. Jones Sr. John P. Kee Charles Harrison Mason Chandler David Owens Sr Gilbert E. Patterson J. O. Patterson Jr. Wayne Perryman Ted Thomas Sr. F. D. Washington Dickerson Wells Timothy Wright Lennox Yearwood ) Church of Our Lord Jesus Christ of the Apostolic Faith ( Robert C. Lawson ) Church of Universal Triumph, Dominion of God ( James F. Jones James Shaffer ) Fire Baptized Holiness Church of God of the Americas Mount Sinai Holy Church of America ( Ida B. Robinson ) Pentecostal Assemblies of the World Pentecostal Churches of Christ ( J. Delano Ellis ) Reformed Zion Union Apostolic Church Triumph the Church and Kingdom of God in Christ (Elias Dempsey Smith) United Pentecostal Council of the Assemblies of God, Incorporated United Holy Church of America United Sabbath-Day Adventist Church Catholic Black Catholicism ( Servant of God Mother Mary Lange Venerable Mother Henriette DeLille William Augustine Williams Venerable Pierre Toussaint Venerable Fr Augustus Tolton George Clements Bishop John Ricard Servant of God Julia Greeley Servant of God Sr Thea Bowman Sr Jamie Phelps, OP Clarence Rivers Fr Cyprian Davis, OSB Archbishop James Lyke Cardinal Wilton Gregory ) Other African Orthodox Church ( George Alexander McGuire ) Church of Christ (Holiness) U.S.A. ( Charles Price Jones ) Cumberland Presbyterian Church in America City of Refuge UCC ( Yvette Flunder ) Imani Temple African-American Catholic Congregation ( George Augustus Stallings Jr. ) Interdenominational Theological Center Israelite School of Universal Practical Knowledge Love Center Church ( Walter Hawkins ) Original Church of God or Sanctified Church Spencer Churches ( Peter Spencer ) Trinity United Church of Christ ( Otis Moss III ) United House of Prayer for All People ( Marcelino Manuel da Graça Walter McCollough Samuel C. Madison C.M. Bailey) Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Carolyn_Tyler_Guidry&oldid=1080177096 " Categories : African Methodist Episcopal Church Women Methodist bishops African Methodist Episcopal bishops African-American Christian clergy American Christian clergy 1937 births