 100 sons of King Dhritarashtra and Gandhari in the epic Mahabharata Kaurava is a Sanskrit term which refers to descendants of Kuru , a legendary king of India who is the ancestor of many of the characters of the epic Mahabharata . Usually, the term is used for the 100 sons of King Dhritarashtra and his wife Gandhari . Duryodhana , Dushasana , Vikarna and Chitrasena are the most popular among the brothers. They also had a sister named Dussala and a half-brother named Yuyutsu . Kaurava army (left) faces the Pandavas. A 17th-18th century painting from Mewar , Rajasthan . Etymology [ edit ] The term Kauravas is used in the Mahabharata with two meanings: The wider meaning is used to represent all the descendants of Kuru. This meaning, which includes the Pandava brothers, is often used in the earlier parts of popular renditions of the Mahabharata . [1] The narrower but more common meaning is used to represent the elder line of the descendants of Kuru. This restricts it to the children of King Dhritarashtra , excluding the children of his younger brother, Pandu , whose children form the Pandava line. The rest of this article deals with the Kaurava in the narrower sense, that is, the children of Dhritarashtra by Gandhari . When referring to these children, a more specific term is also used – Dhārtarāṣṭra ( Sanskrit : धार्तराष्ट्र), a derivative of Dhritarashtra. [ citation needed ] Birth of Kauravas [ edit ] After Gandhari was married to Dhritarashtra , she wrapped a cloth over her eyes and vowed to share the darkness that her husband lived in. Once Sage Krishna Dwaipayana Vyasa came to visit Gandhari in Hastinapur and she took great care of the comforts of the great saint and saw that he had a pleasant stay in Hastinapur . The saint was pleased with Gandhari and granted her a boon. Gandhari wished for one hundred sons who would be as powerful as her husband. Dwaipayan Vyasa granted her the boon and in due course of time, Gandhari found herself to be pregnant. But two years passed and still, the baby was not born. [2] Meanwhile, Kunti received a son from Yama whom she called Yudhishthira . After two years of pregnancy, Gandhari gave birth to a hard piece of lifeless flesh that was not a baby at all. Gandhari was devastated as she had expected a hundred sons according to the blessing of Rishi Vyasa . She was about to throw away the piece of flesh while Rishi Vyasa appeared and told her that his blessings could not have been in vain and asked Gandhari to arrange for one hundred jars to be filled with ghee . He told Gandhari that he would cut the piece of flesh into a hundred pieces and place them in the jars, which would then develop into the one hundred sons that she so desired. Gandhari told Vyasa then that she also wanted to have a daughter. Vyasa agreed, cut the piece of flesh into one hundred and one-pieces, and placed them each into a jar. After two more years of patient waiting the jars were ready to be opened and were kept in a cave. Bhima was born on the same day on which Duryodhana was born thus making them of the same age. Arjuna , Nakula , and Sahadeva were born after Duryodhana was born. [3] Children of Dhritarashtra [ edit ] The children of Dhritarashtra by Gandhari are also referred by a more specific and frequently encountered term - Dhārtarāṣṭra , a derivative of Dhṛtarāṣṭra (Dhritarashtra). [ dubious – discuss ] According to the epic, Gandhari wanted a hundred sons and Vyasa granted her a boon that she would have these. Another version says that she was unable to have any children for a long time and she eventually became pregnant but did not deliver for two years, after which she gave birth to a lump of flesh. Vyasa cut this lump into a hundred and one-pieces and these eventually developed into a hundred boys and one girl. [4] The birth of these children is relevant to the dispute over the succession of the kingdom's throne. It attributes the late birth of Duryodhana , the eldest son of Dhritarashtra , despite his father's early marriage and legitimizes the case for his cousin Yudhishthira to claim the throne, since he could claim to be the eldest of his generation. All the sons of Dhritarashtra (excluding Yuyutsu ) were killed in the Battle of Kurukshetra . Names of the Kauravas [ edit ] The Mahabharata notes the names of all Kauravas, of which only Duryodhana, Dushasana, Vikarna and Chitrasena play a significant role: [5] Duryodhana-Bhanumati Dushasana-Chandramukhi Vikarna-Indumati Chitrasena-Kambhoj Princess Upachitran-Kambhoj Princess Suvarma-Kambhoj Princess Dussaha-Pragyotisha Princess Jalagandha-Pragyotisha Princess Sama-Pragyotisha Princess Saha-Pragyotisha Princess Vindha-Avanti Princess Anuvindha-Avanti Princess Durdharsha-Vanga Princess Subahu-Shivi Princess Dushpradarshan-Kosala Princess Durmarshan-Mahishmati Princess Durmukha-Shalwa Princess Dushkarna-Matsya Princess Karna-Magadha Princess Salan-Chedi Princess Sathwa-Chedi Princess Sulochan-Darsana Princess Chithra-Pandya Princess Chitraksha-Pandya Princess Charuchithra-Pandya Princess Sarasana-Naga Princess Durmada-Andhra Princess Durviga-Dravidas Princess Vivitsu-Pulindas Princess Viktana-Yavanas Princess Urnanabha-Yaudheyas Princess Sunabha-Malavas Princess Nanda-Dwarka Princess Upananda-Dwarka Princess Chitravarma-Dwarka Princess Suvarma-Dwarka Princess Durvimochan-Dwarka Princess Ayobahu-Dwarka Princess Mahabahu-Dwarka Princess Chitranga-Dwarka Princess Chitrakundala-Dwarka Princess Bhimvega-Dwarka Princess Bhimba-Dwarka Princess Balaki-Dwarka Princess Balvardhana-Dwarka Princess Ugrayudha-Manipur Princess Sushena-Barsana Princess Kundhadhara-Vidarbha Princess Mahodara-Bear Princess Chithrayudha-Yadava Princess Nishangi-Gandharva Princess Pashi-Madra Princess Vridaraka-Mahishakha Princess Dridhavarma-Kashmira Princess Dridhakshatra-Videha Princess Somakirti-Vahlika Princess Anudara-Valika Princess Dridasandha-Anga Princess Jarasangha-North Panchal, Ahichatra Princess Sathyasandha-Sindhu Princess Sadas-Sauvira Princess Suvak-Karusha Princess Ugrasarva-Mathura Princess Ugrasarva-Mathura Princess Senani-Mathura Princess Dushparajai-Mathura Princess Aparajit-Mathura Princess Kundusai-Mathura Princess Vishalaksha-Mathura Princess Duradhara-Mathura Princess Dridhahastha-Mathura Princess Suhastha-Mathura Princess Vatvega-Mathura Princess Suvarcha-Lanka Princess Aadiyaketu-Lanka Princess Bahvasi-Lanka Princess Nagaadat-Lanka Princess Agrayayi-Lanka Princess Kavachi-Kishkindha Princess Kradhan-Kishkindha Princess Kundi-Pratishthan Princess Kundadhara-Prabhas Princess Dhanurdhara-Bhojkat Princess Bhimaratha-Kundinpur Princess Virabahi-Ujjaini Princess Alolupa-Vidisha Princess Abhaya-Nishad Princess Raudrakarma-Takshashila Princess Dhridarathasraya-Ayodhaya Princess Anaghrushya-Prayag Princess Kundhabhedi-Rajgruha Princess Viravi-Gaya Princess Chitrakundala-Shravasti Princess Dirghlochan-Maniman Princess Pramati-Abhira Princess Veeryavan-Virat nagar Princess, Matsya Desh Dirgharoma-Shursena Princess Dirghabhu-Vamsa Princess Kundashi-Kiratas Princess Virjasa-Kanchi Princess The Kauravas also had a half-brother, Yuyutsu, and a sister, Duhsala . Marriages and children of Kauravas [ edit ] All the 100 Kauravas were mentioned to have wives in the Adi Parva . [6] Some of them had children - Duryodhana was mentioned to have a Kalinga princess as his wife, named in folklores as Bhanumati. They had two children - a son Laxman Kumara and one daughter named Lakshmana. Lakshman Kumar participated in the Kurukshetra War and killed Shikhandi 's son Kshatradeva on the 12th day of the war. He is killed by Abhimanyu on the 13th day of the War. Lakshmana was said to have married Krishna 's son Samba , and they had a son Ushneek. Dushasana was also said to have a son and a daughter. His son who killed Abhimanyu in the war. Dushasana's son was ultimately killed by Shrutasena in the War. Chitrasena's son was said to have been killed by Shrutakarma in the Kurukshetra War . However, it was mentioned that all these sons of the Kauravas were killed by the sons of the Pandavas. In literature [ edit ] Harivamsa Purana (8th century CE) narrates the Jain version of their story. [7] In popular culture [ edit ] The term Kaurava is used as the name of a fictional planetary system in the 2008 real-time strategy video game Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War – Soulstorm , as well as the names of the system's planets. See also [ edit ] Kuru Kingdom Reference [ edit ] ^ Monier-Williams, Sir Monier (1872). A Sanskṛit-English Dictionary Etymologically and Philologically Arranged: With Special Reference to Greek, Latin, Gothic, German, Anglo-Saxon, and Other Cognate Indo-European Languages . Clarendon Press. ^ "Kauravas" . World History Encyclopedia . Retrieved 5 May 2020 . ^ "Mahabharat Chapter 6 - Birth of Pandavas and Kauravas" . Archived from the original on 24 September 2015 . Retrieved 3 September 2015 . ^ The Birth of the Pandavas and Kauravas ^ Pattanaik, Devdutt (2010). Jaya: an Illustrated Retelling of the Mahabharata . Gurgaon, Haryana, India. ISBN 978-0-14-310425-4 . OCLC 692288394 . ^ "The Mahabharata, Book 1: Adi Parva: Sambhava Parva: Section CXVII" . ^ Upinder Singh 2016 , p. 26. Sources [ edit ] Singh, Upinder (2016), A History of Ancient and Early Medieval India: From the Stone Age to the 12th Century , Pearson Education , ISBN 978-93-325-6996-6 External links [ edit ] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Kauravas . Persons and Stories from Mahabharata v t e Mahabharata Traditional author and narrators Vyasa Vaisampayana Ugrashrava Sauti Books ( parva s) Adi Sabha Vana Virata Udyoga Bhishma Bhagavad Gita Drona Karna Shalya Sauptika Stri Shanti Anushasana Ashvamedhika Ashramavasika Mausala Mahaprasthanika Svargarohana Harivamsa Tribes Main tribes Bharata Kauravas Pandavas Yadu Kunti Gandhara Matsya List of tribes Janpadas Mahajanapadas Places Capitals Hastinapur Indraprastha 48 kos parikrama of Kurukshetra Kurukshetra Jyotisar Panchgram Indraprastha Pranaprastha Swarnaprastha Tilaprastha Vyagaprastha Events Svayamvara Kurukshetra War Vishvarupa Chakravyūha Characters Abhimanyu Amba Ambika Ambalika Arjuna Ashwatthama Bahlika Balarama Bhagadatta Bharata Bhima Bhishma Bhurishravas Chitrāngada Chitrāngadā Damayanti Dhrishtadyumna Dhritarashtra Draupadi Drona Drupada Duhsala Durvasa Duryodhana Dushasana Dushyanta Ekalavya Gandhari Ganga Ghatotkacha Hidimba Hidimbi Janamejaya Jarasandha Jayadratha Karna Kichaka Kripa Krishna Role in the Mahabharata Kritavarma Kunti Madri Nahusha Nakula Nala Pandu Parashurama Parikshit Purochana Pururavas Rukmi Rukmini Sahadeva Sanjaya Satyaki Satyavati Savitri Shantanu Shakuni Shakuntala Shalya Shikhandi Shishupala Subhadra Sudeshna Ulupi Upapandavas Uttara Uttarā Vichitravirya Vidura Vikarna Virata Vrishaketu Vrishasena Vyasa Yayati Yudhishthira Yuyutsu Related Avatars Kingdoms Vedic era Vedic-Puranic chronology Sarasvati River Category Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Kaurava&oldid=1147709208 " Categories : Characters in the Mahabharata Kingdoms of the Puru clan Kuru Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Use dmy dates from September 2020 Use Indian English from May 2018 All Wikipedia articles written in Indian English All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from February 2022 All accuracy disputes Articles with disputed statements from August 2022 Commons category link