 Endangered Semitic language of Oman and Yemen Hobyot Pronunciation [həbjuːt, hoːbjoːt] Native to Yemen , Oman Native speakers (500 cited 1998-2010) [1] Language family Afro-Asiatic Semitic West Semitic South Semitic Modern South Arabian Hobyot Language codes ISO 639-3 hoh Glottolog hoby1242 ELP Hobyot Hobyot (Arabic: لغة هوبيوت , also known as Hewbyót, Habyot, or Hobi) is one of the six Modern South Arabian languages (MSAL), a group of South Semitic languages spoken in the southern Arabian Peninsula . A severely-endangered Semitic language on the verge of extinction, it is spoken in a small area between Yemen and neighboring Oman . The speaking population is estimated to be about 1000 in Oman and 40 in Yemen, though the true number may be less. [2] Its usage is less associated with a specific community or tribe of people, and more related to the geographical area in which it is spoken (the mountainous Dhufar/Yemen border). [3] Much of the information regarding Hobyot's existence originated through the study of the more dominant, neighboring Modern South Arabian languages like Mehri and Jibbali . A clear linguistic description of Hobyot is difficult, as many speakers mix Mehri into their speech around outsiders. In recent years, individual studies of Hobyot have provided sufficient evidence to prove its linguistic independence, and have given insight into the history and culture of its speakers. Documentation of its complete structure, however, has yet to be completed. History of documentation [ edit ] Linguists first mentioned Hobyot in 1981 with a publication done by Thomas Muir Johnstone, though he initially discovered it in the 1970s. Johnstone hypothesized that it was actually a fusion of the more popular Mehri and Jibbali dialects of the MSAL rather than a definitive language in its own right. It would not be distinguished as its own language until 1985, when Marie-Claude Simeone-Sinelle published enough evidence to reveal distinction from its MSAL counterparts. It is now widely understood that a sufficient number of individual linguistic features has proved Hobyot's independence as its own language. [4] Some believe that Hobyot speakers consider their language to be a mixture of Shahri and Mehri. [5] More documentation of the language is anticipated to arrive in the near future, as two modern research groups from the UK and France have been conducting field work in the hopes of shedding greater light on its nature. [6] A preliminary detailing of some phonological and grammatical differences between Hobyot can be found in works done by Simeone-Senelle; specifically, in her work on its usage in Yemen and Oman. Geographic distribution [ edit ] Given its location at the border of two countries, Hobyot is the shared language of people of differing origins. While speakers are mostly found on both sides of the mountainous border between Yemen and Oman, [7] some can be found in desert areas to the north and west, as well as fishing communities on the coast. The misinterpretation of Hobyot as a part of either Mehri or Jibbali may stem from the fact that most Hobyot speakers came into contact with Jibbali speakers in the mountains, and Mahra speakers in the deserts and coastal areas. [3] Hobyot speakers identify with the Mahra (Mehri) tribe, according to Hetzron's book on the Semitic languages. They are located within the Mehri area. [8] In the mountains, they breed camels, cows, and goats, while escaping in caves and settlements of roundhouses during the monsoons. [9] Most Hobyot speakers along the coasts are multilingual, and often have some understanding of Mehri or Mehriyot, even if they are not fluent. Influence by either Jibbali, Mehri, or Mehriyot depends upon linguistic proximity. For example, Hobyot spoken in Yemen is closer to Mehriyot on the coast and Jibbali in the mountains. Endangerment [ edit ] Hobyot is considered a critically endangered language. [10] The actual number of speakers is unknown, but it is estimated to be only a few hundred. Most of those who maintain the language are elderly, which adds to the likelihood that language extinction is near. Ethnologue categorizes it as a moribund language (EGIDS 8a). The only fluent speakers that are left are older than the child-bearing age, which ultimately makes integration of the language into subsequent generations highly improbable. [1] Mechanisms of transmission would have to be created from outside the community in order to preserve it. References [ edit ] ^ a b Hobyot at Ethnologue (25th ed., 2022) ^ Simeone-Senelle, Marie-Claude. 2013. "Mehri and Hobyót spoken in Oman and in Yemen." Sciences de l'Homme et de la Societe HAL. ^ a b "British-Yemeni Society:The pre-literate, non-Arabic languages of Oman and Yemen" . al-bab.com . Retrieved 2017-04-30 . ^ Lonnet, Antoine (1985-01-01). "The modern South Arabian languages in the PDR of Yemen". Proceedings of the Seminar for Arabian Studies . 15 : 49–55. JSTOR 41223029 . ^ Peterson, J. E. (2004-01-01). "Oman's Diverse Society: Southern Oman". Middle East Journal . 58 (2): 254–269. doi : 10.3751/58.2.15 . JSTOR 4330004 . ^ Butts, Aaron (2015-09-25). Semitic Languages in Contact . BRILL. ISBN 9789004300156 . ^ Watson, J., & al-Mahri, A. (2016, April). Language, culture and the environment: Documenting traditional language and culture in Dhofar. In State of the Art Research in the Humanities and Social Sciences for Qatar and the Arab Gulf . Leeds. ^ Simeone-Senelle, Marie-Claude (2010). "Mehri and Hobyot Spoken in Oman and Yemen" . HAL Archives . ^ Hetzron, Robert (2013-10-08). The Semitic Languages . Routledge. ISBN 9781136115806 . ^ Al Jahdhami, Said (October 2016). "Minority Languages in Oman". Journal of the Association for Anglo-American Studies . 4 . Further reading [ edit ] Arnold, Werner. 1993. “Zur Position des Hóbyót in den neusüdarabischen Sprachen.” Zeitschrift für Arabische Linguistik Donohue, Mark. 1998. "Fieldwork Reports 16.” Foundation for Endangered Languages Nakano, Aki'o. 2013. Hobyót (Oman) Vocabulary with example texts . Al Jahdhami, S. (2016). "Minority Languages in Oman". ANGLISTICUM. Journal of the Association for Anglo-American Studies , 4 (10), 105-112. Hetzron, R. (2006). The Semitic languages . London: Routledge. Lonnet, A. (1985). "The modern South Arabian languages in the PDR of Yemen". Proceedings of the Seminar for Arabian Studies , 15 , 49-55. JSTOR 1223029 Morris, M. (2007). British-Yemeni Society: The pre-literate, non-Arabic languages of Oman and Yemen. Retrieved March 8, 2017, from http://al-bab.com/albab-orig/albab/bys/articles/morris07.htm Peterson, J. (2004). "Oman's Diverse Society: Southern Oman". Middle East Journal, 58 (2), 254-269. JSTOR 4330004 Rubin, A. D. (2015). "The Classification of Hobyot". Semitic Languages in Contact, 311-332. doi : 10.1163/9789004300156_017 Simeone-Senelle, M. C. (2010). Mehri and Hobyot spoken in Oman and in Yemen. Simeone-Senelle, M. C. (2013). 17 The Modern South Arabian Languages. The Semitic Languages , 378. Watson, J., and al-Mahri, A. (2016, April). "Language, culture and the environment: Documenting traditional language and culture in Dhofar". In State of the Art Research in the Humanities and Social Sciences for Qatar and the Arab Gulf . Leeds. External links [ edit ] Hobyót at Endangered Languages Project ELAR archive of Hobyót language documentation materials v t e Languages of Oman Official language Arabic Oman portal Main foreign language English Minority languages Balochi Bathari Harsusi Hobyót Kumzari Luwati Mehri Shehri Swahili Varieties of Arabic Bahrani Arabic Omani Arabic Dhofari Shihhi Sign languages Omani Sign Language v t e Languages of Yemen Official language Arabic Main foreign language English Minority languages Hobyót Mehri Razihi Soqotri Varieties of Arabic Yemeni Arabic Hadhrami Judeo-Yemeni San'ani Ta'izzi-Adeni Sign languages Yemeni Sign Language v t e Semitic languages East Akkadian ( Canaano-Akkadian ) Eblaite West Cen- tral North- west Cana- anite Hebrew Eras Biblical ( northern dialect ) Mishnaic Medieval Modern Reading traditions Ashkenazi Babylonian Italian Mizrahi ( Syrian ) Palestinian Samaritan Sephardi Tiberian Yemenite Others Ammonite Edomite Moabite Phoenician Punic Samalian Aramaic Historical Old Aramaic Imperial Aramaic Biblical Aramaic Middle Aramaic Western Nabataean Palestinian Christian Palestinian Jewish Palestinian Samaritan Palmyrene Western Neo-Aramaic Eastern Central Neo-Aramaic Mlaḥsô Turoyo Northeastern Neo-Aramaic Suret Assyrian Chaldean Barwar Bohtan Neo-Aramaic Hértevin Koy Sanjaq Surat Qaraqosh Senaya Urmia Christian Judeo- Aramaic Barzani Betanure Inter-Zab Koy Sanjaqc Sanandaj Trans-Zab Urmia Jewish Zakho Others Ashurian and Hatran Jewish Babylonian Aramaic Mandaic Neo-Mandaic Neo-Aramaic Syriac Others Amorite Ugaritic Ancient North Arabian Dadanitic Dumaitic Hasaitic Hismaic Safaitic Taymanitic Thamudic Himyaritic Sutean Arabic Historical Proto-Arabic Nabataean Arabic Old Arabic Pre-classical Arabic Literary Classical Modern Standard Dialect groups Egyptian Arabic Levantine Maghrebi Maltese Siculo-Arabic Mesopotamian Peninsular South Ethiopic North Geʽez Dahalik Tigre Tigrinya South Trans- versal Amharic–Argobba Amharic Argobba Harari– East Gurage Harari East Gurage Siltʼe Inneqor Ulbare Wolane Zay Outer n-group Gafat Soddo tt-group Mesmes Muher West Gurage Inor Endegen Mesqan Sebat Bet Chaha Ezha Gumer Gura Gyeto Modern Arabian Baṭḥari Ḥarsusi Hobyot Mehri Shehri Soqotri Old Arabian Faifi Hadramautic Minaean Qatabanian Awsanian Razihi Sabaean Italics indicate extinct or historical languages. Languages between parentheses are varieties of the language on their left. Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Hobyót_language&oldid=1137886616 " Categories : Languages of Oman Languages of Yemen Endangered Afroasiatic languages Modern South Arabian languages Hidden categories: Language articles citing Ethnologue 25 Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Language articles with ol