 Massacre of miners Tumeremo massacre Location Tumeremo , Bolivar State , Venezuela Date March 8, 2016 ( 2016-03-08 ) Target Tumeremo miners Deaths 4 (confirmed); 24 disappeared, supposedly murdered [1] The Tumeremo massacre occurred on 8 March 2016, in which 28 miners were murdered and kidnapped in the town of Tumeremo , located in the state of Bolívar, Venezuela. On the night of 4 March 2016, they were in the Atenas mine, on the border between the municipalities of Sifontes and Roscio , a poor area where, like most of the southeast of the country, the main economic activity is mining. [2] Attack [ edit ] Bolívar state in Venezuela. According to anonymous witnesses, the Banda del Topo ("Mole gang") arrived at the mine, allegedly with the aid and complicity of unidentified security forces, and may have dispersed hundreds of miners with the ambush, with dozens falling and dying in the stampede. The bodies were allegedly put in a truck and moved across the Guayana Esequiba border. Some say that parts of the victims were dismembered to intimidate the survivors. However, the commission formed by the National Armed Forces and the CICPC assured that there was no evidence of any massacre or confrontation, [2] and the governor of Bolívar state, Francisco Rangel Gómez , assured that "there is not a single thing to show that they have died or been massacred." The Venezuelan Ombudsman commissioned local investigations, and the Public Ministry authorised three prosecutors for the incident. [1] Victims [ edit ] The remains of at least four of the disappeared miners were later found in the middle of the country, and seemed to have been shot, Venezuelan Prosecutor General Luisa Ortega Díaz said, but they had no identification. [3] [4] Ortega Díaz reported late on the night of 14 March 2016 that the search efforts for the disappeared miners had concluded with the discovery of 17 bodies total. [5] Subsequently, the Ombudsman, Tarek William Saab , announced on 15 March 2016 that the remains of 17 miners found in a mass grave in Tumeremo were wounded by firearms. He met with local and military authorities that began investigating the massacre and also indicated that officials of the Bolivarian National Armed Forces and security forces of Bolívar state were continuing to search a sector of the Hoja de Lata mine. [6] Responses [ edit ] President Nicolás Maduro said that investigations into the disappearance of the 28 miners in the town of Tumeremo would be undertaken to the fullest extent and those responsible for the crime will be punished, blaming a paramilitary group for the attack. [7] Lester Toledo, a Voluntad Popular leader, criticised Rangel, explaining that "[i]t is a national shame, because it is a humanitarian issue: 28 people disappeared and Governor Francisco Rangel Gómez didn't travel to Tumeremo to face the relatives." Toledo was one of many opposition politicians who asked for the governor's resignation due to the mismanagement of the case of the disappeared miners. [8] [9] See also [ edit ] Massacre of El Amparo October 2018 Tumeremo massacre Pemon conflict References [ edit ] ^ a b "Sin rastro de desaparecidos en mina de Tumeremo" . El Universal (in Spanish) . Retrieved 8 March 2016 . ^ a b "Miedo, desolación y ningún rastro de mineros desaparecidos a 48 horas de protesta en Tumeremo" . Correo del Caroní (in Spanish). Archived from the original on 8 March 2016 . Retrieved 8 March 2016 . ^ "Hallaron restos de mineros desaparecidos en Venezuela" , artículo del 14 de marzo de 2016 en el sitio web Cadena3. ^ "Hallan restos de 28 mineros desaparecidos en Venezuela" , artículo del 14 de marzo de 2016 en el diario La Voz de Galicia (España). ^ Globovision. "Ortega Díaz: Hemos encontrado 17 cadáveres en Tumeremo" . Retrieved 18 November 2018 . ^ Globovision. "Cuerpos hallados en Tumeremo presentaban heridas de bala" . Retrieved 18 November 2018 . ^ Globovision. "Maduro sobre Tumeremo: Vamos a investigar hasta las últimas consecuencias este crimen" . Retrieved 18 November 2018 . ^ Globovision. "Lester Toledo pide renuncia de Rangel Gómez por caso Tumeremo" . Retrieved 18 November 2018 . ^ Globovision. "Gobernador de Bolívar desmiente presunta muerte de mineros en Tumeremo" . Retrieved 18 November 2018 . v t e Crisis in Venezuela Protests against Nicolás Maduro Venezuelan presidential crisis History of Venezuela (1999–present) COVID-19 pandemic Events Ongoing Economic crisis Bolivarian missions Bolivarian Revolution Bolivarianism Censorship Chavismo Crimes against humanity Corruption Defections Devaluation of the Venezuelan bolívar Economic policies under Nicolás Maduro Energy crisis Human rights abuses Hyperinflation Illegal drug trade International sanctions Negotiations Refugee crisis and diaspora ] Resource shortages States of emergency in Venezuela Catatumbo campaign Pemon conflict Coronavirus pandemic 2010 Colombian diplomatic crisis Death of Franklin Brito PDVAL affair Parliamentary election III National Assembly of Venezuela 2012 Amuay tragedy Presidential election Regional elections 2013 Death of Hugo Chávez Presidential election Dakazo Municipal elections 2014 2014 protests timeline Imprisonment of Leopoldo López Defense of Human Rights and Civil Society Act 2015 Arrest of Antonio Ledezma Colombian diplomatic/migration crisis Resolution 8610 2015 protests (timeline) Narcosobrinos affair Parliamentary election IV National Assembly of Venezuela 2016 Tumeremo massacre (first) Recall referendum 2016 protests (timeline) 2017 Detention of Gilber Caro Constitutional crisis Caracas helicopter incident Referendum Constituent Assembly election Members Regional elections Municipal elections Escape of Antonio Ledezma National Assembly attack Attack on Fort Paramacay Mother of All Marches Death of Carlos Andrés García Law against Hatred 2017 protests timeline 2018 El Junquito raid (Operation Gideon I) Presidential campaign of Nicolás Maduro Valencia fire Panama diplomatic crisis Presidential election El Paraíso stampede Caracas drone attack Detention of Juan Requesens Economic reforms and Viernes Rojo Death of Fernando Albán Tumeremo massacre (third) 2018 protests (timeline) 2019 Inauguration of Nicolás Maduro Venezuela TPS Act of 2019 Plan País Humanitarian aid mission Amnesty Law Venezuela Aid Live Statute Governing the Transition to Democracy Murder of Alí Domínguez Widespread blackouts Detention of Roberto Marrero Disappearance of Gilber Caro 30 April uprising attempt Acarigua prison riot Death of Rafael Acosta Arévalo Attack of Rufo Chacón Death of Juan Carlos Márquez Murder of Edmundo Rada Operación Alacrán 2019 protests timeline 2020 National Assembly leadership election Death of Addy Valero Cagua fire Barquisimeto shooting COVID-19 pandemic Guanare prison riot Operation Gideon II Iranian gasoline export Detention of Alex Saab Parliamentary election V National Assembly of Venezuela 2021 La Vega raid Apure clashes 2022 Arauca clashes Deaths during protests 2014 Bassil Da Costa Robert Redman Génesis Carmona Geraldin Moreno 2015 Kluivert Roa 2017 Paola Ramírez Juan Pablo Pernalete Armando Cañizales Miguel Castillo Paúl Moreno Neomar Lander Fabián Urbina David Vallenilla Xiomara Scott People Pro-Maduro Nicolás Maduro F. Ameliach D. Cabello A. Chávez T. El Aissami H. Escarrá T. W. Saab C. Flores A. Istúriz E. Jaua T. Lucena I. Alfonzo N. Maduro Guerra C. Mata Figueroa C. Meléndez C. Alcalá Cordones until 2013 L. Ortega Díaz until 2017 V. Padrino López R. Ramírez until 2018 L. Parra H. Rangel Silva D. Rodríguez J. Rodríguez I. Rodríguez T. W. Saab I. Varela D. Vivas E. Amoroso B. Lugo M. C. Figuera until 2019 E. Farías F. Bernal I. Alfonzo Anti-Maduro Juan Guaidó Óscar Pérez C. Alcalá Cordones since 2013 J. Borges L. Ortega Díaz since 2017 Rafael Ramírez since 2018 María Corina Machado H. Capriles H. Falcón Adrián Arria Aveledo Caro F. Guevara A. Ledezma L. López Mantilla Mendoza Pérez Álvarez Pérez Vivas Ramos Allup J. Requesens R. Requesens F. Rosales M. Rosales H. Salas Feo V. S. Scarano L. Tintori J. Torrealba A. Velásquez J. L. Silva M. C. Figuera since 2019 D. Solórzano O. Barboza J. J. Rendón J. P. Guanipa T. Guanipa Organizations Pro-Maduro Union of South American Nations Bolivarian Alliance for the Americas Political parties Great Patriotic Pole United Socialist Party of Venezuela PODEMOS People's Electoral Movement Media outlets Agencia Venezolana de Noticias Telesur Venezolana de Televisión State organizations Supreme Tribunal of Justice National Electoral Council Constituent National Assembly Bolivarian Intelligence Service Bolivarian National Guard Mission Barrio Adentro Local Committees for Supply and Production Carnet de la Patria Colectivos Anti-Maduro Organization of American States Mercosur Political parties Democratic Unity Roundtable Popular Will Justice First Democratic Action Un Nuevo Tiempo Come Venezuela Copei Movimiento al Socialismo Progressive Advance Agreement for Change National Assembly (majority) Capitolio TV Related Human rights in Venezuela International Criminal Court and Venezuela Torture in Venezuela Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=2016_Tumeremo_massacre&oldid=1110072134 " Categories : 2016 in Venezuela Massacres in Venezuela Enforced disappearances in Venezuela History of Bolívar (state) Crisis in Venezuela 2016 murders in Venezuela Hidden categories: CS1 Spanish-language sources (es) Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Venezuela articles missing geocoordinate data All articles needing coordinates Articles missing coordinates without coordinat