 1995 single by Doug Supernaw "What'll You Do About Me" Single by Doug Supernaw from the album Deep Thoughts from a Shallow Mind B-side "Wishin' Her Well" Released January 9, 1995 Genre Country Length 2 : 41 Label BNA Songwriter(s) Dennis Linde Producer(s) Richard Landis Doug Supernaw singles chronology " You Never Even Called Me by My Name " (1994) " What'll You Do About Me " (1995) " Not Enough Hours in the Night " (1995) "What'll You Do About Me" is a country music song written by Dennis Linde . It was originally recorded in 1984 by McGuffey Lane and then by Steve Earle . It has also been recorded by Randy Travis on his 1987 album, Always & Forever , The Forester Sisters in 1992, and Doug Supernaw , the latter of whom took it to Top 20 on the Billboard country charts in early 1995. Content [ edit ] "What'll You Do About Me" is an uptempo describing a stalker who is singing to his object of affection. Specifically, what initially began as a one-night stand between the narrator and the woman in question ultimately results in the narrator developing an obsessive behavior towards her that he shamelessly declares unstoppable regardless of any attempt on the woman's part to isolate herself from the narrator or to prevent his behavior from escalating. [1] Recording history [ edit ] McGuffey Lane was the first artist or group to record the song in 1984 on their album Day by Day for Atlantic Records . Steve Earle was the second artist to record the song, doing so also in 1984, on Epic Records . Released as a single that year, Earle's rendition peaked at number 76 on the country charts. However, this version was not included on an album until 2005, when Koch Records included it on a reissue of the compilation album Early Tracks (1987). Other subsequent recordings of the song include John Schneider on his album Too Good to Stop Now (1984), Randy Travis on his album Always & Forever (1987), The Forester Sisters on their album I Got a Date (1992), Nitty Gritty Dirt Band on their album Not Fade Away (1992), and Doug Supernaw on his album Deep Thoughts from a Shallow Mind (1995). The Forester Sisters and Supernaw both released their versions as singles also. Supernaw's rendition was the highest-peaking of the three, peaking at number 16 on the U.S. country charts. Critical reception [ edit ] In his book Steve Earle: Fearless Heart, Outlaw Poet , author David McGee describes Earle's rendition as having "a hard country edge and snarling, borderline confrontational vocal." He compared it to Travis's recording, saying that his interpretation showed a "cool, maybe even slightly goofy would-be paramour[…]treating it as a humorous depiction of all-consuming love—no harm, no foul." [1] In Richard Carlin's book Country Music: A Biographical Dictionary , the author says that since Supernaw's version was released while the O. J. Simpson trials were underway, the trials "offered a somewhat creepy parallel to the song, which seemed to be sympathetic toward the abusive man." [2] Due to concerns that the lyrics were overly favorable to the concept of a stalker in the wake of the O. J. Simpson trials, BNA Records sent out an alternate version which replaced the line " I'm on the porch with a two-by-two " to " I'm on the porch with a dinner for two. " This altered version still met negative reception from radio programmers, and fell swiftly from the number 16 position on the Billboard Hot Country Songs charts. [3] WTHI-FM in Terre Haute, Indiana also withdrew the song from rotation after a woman in that city was murdered by a stalker. [4] Supernaw had wanted to ask his label to release another single from the project, but the label instead chose to drop him due to the ensuing controversy. [3] Chart history [ edit ] Steve Earle [ edit ] Chart (1984) Peak position U.S. Billboard Hot Country Singles 76 The Forester Sisters [ edit ] Chart (1992) Peak position US Hot Country Songs ( Billboard ) [5] 74 Doug Supernaw [ edit ] "What'll You Do About Me" debuted at number 62 on the U.S. Billboard Hot Country Singles & Tracks for the week of January 14, 1995. Chart (1995) Peak position Canada Country Tracks ( RPM ) [6] 26 US Hot Country Songs ( Billboard ) [7] 16 References [ edit ] ^ a b McGee, David (2005). Steve Earle: Fearless Heart, Outlaw Poet . CMP Media. p. 69. ISBN 9780879308421 . ^ Carlin, Richard (2003). Country Music: A Biographical Dictionary . Taylor & Francis. p. 393. ISBN 9780415938020 . ^ a b Jack Hurst (March 16, 1995). "BNA drops Doug Supernaw over 'stalking song' " . The Chicago Tribune . pp. 10C . Retrieved March 1, 2020 . ^ "Station bans song after death" . Fort Myers News-Press . May 30, 1995. pp. 4A . Retrieved March 1, 2020 . ^ "The Forester Sisters Chart History (Hot Country Songs)" . Billboard . ^ " Top RPM Country Tracks: Issue 9074 ." RPM . Library and Archives Canada . March 20, 1995. Retrieved July 21, 2013. ^ "Doug Supernaw Chart History (Hot Country Songs)" . Billboard . v t e Steve Earle Studio albums Guitar Town Exit 0 Copperhead Road The Hard Way Train a Comin' I Feel Alright El Corazón The Mountain (with the Del McCoury Band ) Transcendental Blues Jerusalem The Revolution Starts Now Washington Square Serenade Townes I'll Never Get Out of This World Alive The Low Highway Terraplane Colvin & Earle (with Shawn Colvin ) Ghosts of West Virginia J.T. Compilation albums Early Tracks Essential Steve Earle Ain't Ever Satisfied: The Steve Earle Collection The Devil's Right Hand: An Introduction to Steve Earle Side Tracks 20th Century Masters – The Millennium Collection: The Best of Steve Earle Live albums Shut Up and Die Like an Aviator BBC Radio 1 Live in Concert Together at the Bluebird Café (with Guy Clark and Townes Van Zandt ) Just an American Boy Live from Austin, TX Live at Montreux 2005 Notable singles " What'll You Do About Me " " A Little Bit in Love " " Hillbilly Highway " " Guitar Town " " Someday " " Goodbye's All We've Got Left " " Nowhere Road " " Sweet Little '66 " " Copperhead Road " " Six Days on the Road " Other songs " Devil's Right Hand " " When You Fall in Love " " Sometimes She Forgets " " Galway Girl " Related articles Discography E-Squared Records The Steve Earle Show Justin Townes Earle Stacey Earle v t e The Forester Sisters Christy Forester June Forester Kathy Forester Kim Forester Studio albums The Forester Sisters Perfume, Ribbons & Pearls You Again Sincerely Come Hold Me Talkin' 'Bout Men Compilation albums Greatest Hits Notable singles " (That's What You Do) When You're in Love " " I Fell in Love Again Last Night " " Just in Case " " Mama's Never Seen Those Eyes " " Lonely Alone " " Too Much Is Not Enough " " Too Many Rivers " " You Again " " Lyin' in His Arms Again " " Letter Home " " Sincerely " " Don't You " " Leave It Alone " " Drive South " " Men " " What'll You Do About Me " Related articles Discography "Sooner or Later" " These Lips Don't Know How to Say Goodbye " v t e Doug Supernaw Studio albums Red and Rio Grande Deep Thoughts from a Shallow Mind You Still Got Me Fadin' Renegade Notable singles " Reno " " I Don't Call Him Daddy " " Red and Rio Grande " " State Fair " " You Never Even Called Me by My Name " " What'll You Do About Me " " Not Enough Hours in the Night " Relaled articles Phillip Supernaw Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=What%27ll_You_Do_About_Me&oldid=1077855552 " Categories : 1984 singles 1992 singles 1995 singles Steve Earle songs John Schneider (screen actor) songs Randy Travis songs The Forester Sisters songs Nitty Gritty Dirt Band songs Doug Supernaw songs Songs written by Dennis Linde Epic Records singles Warner Records singles BNA Records singles Song recordings produced by Richard Landis 1984 songs Songs about stalking Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Articles with hAudio microformats Single chart usages for Billboardcountrysongs Single chart called without song Single chart usages for Canadacountry Single chart called 