 All-girls secondary school and a coeducational sixth form located on Windermere Terrace in Liverpool Bellerive FCJ Catholic College liverpool Address Aigburth Drive Liverpool , Merseyside , L17 3AA England Coordinates 53°23′13″N 2°56′58″W ﻿ / ﻿ 53.386967°N 2.949564°W ﻿ / 53.386967; -2.949564 Coordinates : 53°23′13″N 2°56′58″W ﻿ / ﻿ 53.386967°N 2.949564°W ﻿ / 53.386967; -2.949564 Information Type Academy Motto Suaviter in modo fortiter in re ( Latin ) Gentle in manner resolute in execution Religious affiliation(s) Roman Catholic Established 1844 ; 179 years ago ( 1844 ) Founder Faithful Companions of Jesus Department for Education URN 138183 Tables Ofsted Reports Chair of Governors Brenda Wallace Head teacher Ms Ella Brett Gender Girls Coeducational (Sixth Form) Age 11 to 18 Enrolment 904 Diocese Liverpool Former name Bellerive Girls' School Website www .bellerivefcj .org Bellerive FCJ Catholic College is an all-girls secondary school and a coeducational sixth form located on Windermere Terrace in Liverpool . [1] It is a Roman Catholic school, and has academy status . Admissions [ edit ] It is a Catholic girls' school. It is situated at the junction of the two sections of the A5089, on the Trans Pennine Trail . It is a single-sex school, with girls attending between the ages of 11–18 and boys in the Sixth Form. History [ edit ] The school opened in 1844 as a boarding school on Great George's Square, offering instruction in Geography, use of globes, Botany, History, Writing, Arithmetic, French and Italian languages . After 52 years the school was moved to Princes Park [1] in 1887. The values of the FCJ charism are central to all that takes place in the school. These values include, Companionship, Dignity, Excellence, Justice, Gentleness and Hope. Direct grant grammar school [ edit ] Like several single-sex catholic secondary schools in Liverpool it was a direct grant grammar school , the Bellerive Girls' School , commonly known as Bellerive Convent Grammar School, from 1946. [2] It is now a single institution spanning both sides of Ullet Road, connected by a private subway and it is called Bellerive FCJ Catholic College. Another catholic girls' direct grant grammar school in Liverpool was the Notre Dame Collegiate School, now the Notre Dame Catholic College . The school had boarding facilities until 1961. In the 1970s the headteacher was Sister Mary Gabriel. Comprehensive [ edit ] It became a comprehensive in 1983, becoming the upper school of St Mary's RC High School. The lower school was at the former St Margaret Clitherow school. In 1997 it became known as Bellerive Convent FCJ, later Bellerive Catholic High School FCJ. Today it is known as Bellerive FCJ Catholic College. It gained Science College status in 2003, and Maths and Computing College status in 2007. Sister Brigid Halligan received the OBE in the 2008 New Year Honours . Sr Brigid retired as Headteacher in August 2017 and has been replaced by Mrs N Howlett MSc NPQH. In 2016, Bellerive was confirmed as a good school following an Ofsted inspection. An Archdiocese of Liverpool Section 48 inspection in June 2017 concluded that Bellerive was an outstanding provider of Catholic education A number of new buildings were opened in 2016-17, including the Sefton Park building( housing the sixth form, Music, Performing Arts and Humanities. The main performance space has been named the Loyola Hall in honour of St. Ignatius of Loyola, founder of the Society of Jesus ( Jesuits). The FCJ sisters share a common Ignatian spirituality with other religious communities. The O'Neill building ( housing Design Technology, Art and Science) was opened by Bishop Tom Williams in April 2018. The O'Neill building has been named in honour of Mother Xavier O'Neill fcJ who died in the 1840s working with the poor of Liverpool in St.Patrick's parish. Construction of a new sports hall commenced in 2017, on the site of the schools tennis courts. Work on this building is scheduled to be completed by August 2018. In September 2017, Bellerive became the base for the Resonate Music Service's south Liverpool hub. Academy [ edit ] The school became an academy in August 2012, and is no longer under local authority control. However the school continues to coordinate admissions with the Liverpool local authority. Academic performance [ edit ] In 2010 it received above average GCSE results, much improved from the year before. At A level, in 2011, the school results were broadly inline with national averages post 16 and are improving. In 2017, Bellerive's Progress 8 score was 0.29 ( provisional), putting it in the top 10 of Liverpool schools on this measure of academic progress in 8 GCSE subjects. Notable former pupils [ edit ] Bellerive FCJ College [ edit ] Florence Milnes (1893–1966), established and ran first BBC library Nikita Parris , footballer Bellerive Girls' School [ edit ] Rosie Cooper , Labour MP since 2005 for West Lancashire (attended 1962–1969) Rosemary Thomas OBE, Ambassador to Belarus (in Minsk) since 2009 (attended 1975–1982) [3] School buildings See also [ edit ] List of direct grant grammar schools Upton Hall School FCJ , a girls' grammar school in Wirral (former Cheshire), and also a former direct grant grammar school References [ edit ] ^ a b "Home - Bellerive School" . Bellerive School . ^ "GRAMMAR SCHOOLS (DIRECT GRANT STATUS) (Hansard, 31 May 1946)" . hansard.millbanksystems.com . ^ "Rosemary Thomas" . webarchive.nationalarchives.gov.uk . v t e Schools in Liverpool Primary schools Arnot St Mary Church of England Primary School Broadgreen Primary School Dovedale Primary School Liverpool College Roscoe Primary School Secondary schools Boys Cardinal Heenan Catholic High School St Francis Xavier's College St Margaret's Church of England Academy West Derby School Girls Archbishop Blanch School Bellerive FCJ Catholic College Broughton Hall High School Holly Lodge Girls' College St John Bosco Arts College St Julie's Catholic High School The Belvedere Academy Coeducational Academy of St Francis of Assisi Academy of St Nicholas Alsop High School Archbishop Beck Catholic College Calderstones School Childwall Academy Dixons Broadgreen Academy Dixons Croxteth Academy Dixons Fazakerley Academy Gateacre School King David High School King's Leadership Academy Liverpool Liverpool College Liverpool Life Sciences UTC North Liverpool Academy Notre Dame Catholic College St Edward's College St Hilda's Church of England High School The Studio School Liverpool Grammar The Liverpool Blue Coat School Special schools Clifford Holroyde Royal School for the Blind Further education City of Liverpool College University of Liverpool Mathematics School Defunct schools Anfield Community Comprehensive School Blackburne House Bluecoat Chambers Huyton College Huyton Hill Preparatory School Liverpool Collegiate School Liverpool Institute High School for Boys Liverpool Institute High School for Girls New Heys Comprehensive School Parklands High School St Benedict's College Scotland Road Free School v t e Archdiocese of Liverpool Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Liverpool Archbishops and bishops of Liverpool I: George Brown II: Alexander Goss III: Bernard O'Reilly IV: Thomas Whiteside V: Frederick Keating VI: Richard Downey VII: William Godfrey VIII: John Heenan IX: George Beck X: Derek Worlock XI: Patrick Kelly (Bishop Emeritus) XII: Malcolm McMahon Churches Liverpool Metropolitan Cathedral - Metropolitan Cathedral of Christ the King Church of St Oswald and St Edmund Arrowsmith, Ashton-in-Makerfield St Mary's Church, Billinge St Joseph's Church, Birkdale Church of St Teresa of Avila, Birkdale Church of St Monica, Bootle St Michael's Church, Ditton St Mary of the Isle Church, Douglas St Anne's Church, Edge Hill Sacred Heart Church, Hindsford Church of the Holy Family, Ince Blundell St John the Evangelist's Church, Kirkdale St Joseph's Church, Leigh St Mary's Church, Little Crosby Our Lady of the Annunciation Church, Liverpool Our Lady of Mount Carmel Church, Liverpool Church of Our Lady of Reconciliation, Liverpool Sacred Heart Church, Liverpool St Aloysius Church, Liverpool St Anthony's Church, Scotland Road St Anthony of Padua Church, Liverpool St Clare's Church, Liverpool St Francis Xavier Church, Liverpool St Mary's Church, Woolton St Oswald's Church, Liverpool St Patrick's Church, Liverpool St Philip Neri Church, Liverpool Church of St Vincent de Paul, Liverpool St Oswald's Church, Padgate Our Lady Help of Christians Church, Portico Our Lady Immaculate and St Joseph Church, Prescot St Bartholomew's Church, Rainhill Our Lady, Star of the Sea & St Maughold Church, Ramsey Our Lady Star of the Sea, Seaforth Church of St Mary, Lowe House Holy Cross Church, St Helens St Ambrose's Church, Speke St Alban's Church, Warrington St Benedict's Church, Warrington St Mary's Church, Warrington St Bede's Church, Widnes St John's Church, Wigan St Jude's Church, Wigan St Mary's Church, Wigan Patronal Feasts of the Diocese Saint Joseph (19 March) Our Lady of the Immaculate Conception (8 December) Schools St Mary's College, Crosby The Academy of St Francis of Assisi The Academy of St Nicholas All Hallows Catholic High School All Saints Catholic High School, Kirkby Archbishop Beck Catholic College Bellerive FCJ Catholic College Broughton Hall High School Cardinal Heenan Catholic High School Carmel College (St Helens) Christ the King Catholic High School, Southport De La Salle School, St Helens Holy Cross Catholic High School, Chorley Holy Family Catholic High School, Thornton Hope Academy Maricourt Catholic School Notre Dame Catholic College, Liverpool Our Lady Queen of Peace Catholic Engineering College Sacred Heart Catholic College St Augustine of Canterbury Catholic Academy St Bede's Catholic High School, Ormskirk St Cuthbert's Catholic High School St Edmund Arrowsmith Catholic Academy, Whiston St Edmund Arrowsmith Catholic High School, Ashton-in-Makerfield St Edward's College St Francis Xavier's College, Liverpool St John Bosco Arts College St John Fisher Catholic High School, Wigan St Julie's Catholic High School St Mary's Catholic High School, Astley St Mary's Catholic High School, Leyland St Peter's Catholic High School Saints Peter and Paul Catholic High School The Salesian Academy of St John Bosco See also: Catholic Church in the Isle of Man Apostolic Vicariate of the Lancashire District St Joseph's College, Up Holland Vincent Malone Thomas Neylon Tom Williams Catholicism portal Liverpool portal Authority control ISNI Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Bellerive_FCJ_Catholic_College&oldid=1144690459 " Categories : Catholic secondary schools in the Archdiocese of Liverpool Secondary schools in Liverpool Girls' schools in Merseyside Educational institutions established in 1844 1844 establishments in England Academies in Liverpool Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Use dmy dates from September 2019 Use British English from February 2023 Infobox mapframe without OSM relation ID on Wikidata Pages using infobox school with a linked country Coordinates on Wikidata Articles with ISNI identifiers Pages using the Kartogra