 Tea originating from Kashmir This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Noon chai" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( December 2013 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this template message ) Noon chai Alternative names Kashmiri tea, Pink tea, gulabi chai, Namkeen chai, Sheer chai Region or state Kashmir Associated cuisine Kashmiri Main ingredients gunpowder tea , milk , soda , salt or sugar Noon chai ( Kashmiri pronunciation: [nuːnɨ t͡ʃaːj] ), also called Kashmiri tea , pink tea , gulabi chai , [1] Namkeen chai ( Kashmiri pronunciation: [namkiːn t͡ʃaːj] ), [2] [ better source needed ] , and Sheer chai ( Kashmiri pronunciation: [ʃiːrʲ t͡ʃaːj] ) [3] is a traditional tea beverage originating in Kashmir . It is made with gunpowder tea (green tea leaves rolled into small balls), milk and baking soda . [3] Etymology [ edit ] The word noon means ' salt ' in several Indian languages , such as Kashmiri , Bengali , Rajasthani , Hindi and Nepali . [4] It is used in several other terms, such as the noon-dab ("salt promise") custom of Rajasthan , where a hand is dipped in salt to signify a solemn promise. [5] Kashmiri chai Kashmiri Hindus refer to this Kashmiri tea as "Sheer chai". [6] "Shir", the term from which "Sheer chai" is derived from, means "milk" in Farsi . [3] "Tea pink" is also used as an adjective referencing the characteristic pink hue of the tea, such as to describe textiles . [1] Preparation [ edit ] Noon chai is traditionally made from green tea leaves, milk, salt and baking soda, and is usually cooked in a samavar . [1] The leaves are boiled for about an hour [7] with baking soda until it develops a burgundy colouration, then ice or cold water is added to "shock" it and make it stay that colour. When milk is added, it combines with the burgundy to yield its signature pink colour. It is then aerated by ladling out some of it and pouring it back into the pot to incorporate tiny air bubbles into it, a process that yields a froth and that may take hours to do by hand. [1] Many shops will not undertake such a labour-intensive process in order to create a red hue, instead using an instant Kashmiri chai mix or adding red food colouring to imitate the pink colour. [ citation needed ] Sugar is not traditionally used in Kashmiri recipes, although newer commercial preparations in many restaurants around the world and tea stalls that serve Kashmiri cuisine may include sweeteners or exclude salt. [1] In Pakistan, it is often served with sugar and nuts. [2] Chemistry [ edit ] When tea leaves are boiled, molecules called polyphenols are extracted from the leaves into the water. In green teas like those used in Noon chai, the polyphenols extracted act similar to the substance phenol red , which changes color depending on the pH level of the substance it is in—yellow when it is acidic , and red when it is alkaline . Since Noon chai is boiled for a long time, a lot of color-changing polyphenols are extracted from the leaves. When alkaline baking soda (sodium bicarbonate) is added to it, the tea takes on its deep red color (which then turns pink with milk). [7] History [ edit ] Origin [ edit ] Origin stories of the tea allege that it came from Yarkland (which later became Xinjiang, China ) to Kashmir through the Silk Road . Noon chai originates from the Himalayas , where salt was added as an electrolyte to prevent dehydration at high altitudes. It is also related to other Central Asian salty milk teas, such as the Uyghur tea etkanchay and the Mongolian tea suutei tsai . [1] Use of alkaline salts, like baking soda, in tea originated from the Tibetan plateau , where naturally-occurring deposits of soda were used to darken po cha . Later, in Ladakh , eastern Kashmir, hot spring soda crystals were used in local butter tea, or gur gur cha . Residents of Kashmir Valley adopted the practice from Ladakh, importing soda (called phul ) from them and brick tea from Lhasa , then replacing yak butter with milk and cream to fit local tastes. [1] Cultural significance [ edit ] Noon chai is popularly consumed numerous times per day in Kashmir, served with breads such as kulcha , girda , or tsochwor . [1] In the month of Ramadan , Sheer chai is widely sold and served in Patna, Bihar , notably in the central district of Sabzibagh ("vegetable garden"). [ citation needed ] See also [ edit ] Kashmiri cuisine Butter tea Kulhar Masala chai References [ edit ] ^ a b c d e f g h Subramanian, Sribala (2020-01-29). "The Art and Science of Kashmir's Pink Tea" . Gastro Obscura . Atlas Obscura . Retrieved 2023-02-20 . ^ a b "NOON CHAI / SALTY TEA / PINK TEA – KASHMIRI NAMKEEN CHAI" . Life 'n' Such. April 16, 2007. Archived from the original on 8 February 2014 . Retrieved 17 February 2014 . ^ a b c Gupta, Yogesh M. "Sheer Chai Recipe" . IndiaCurry.com . Archived from the original on 2012-07-06. ^ Bengali and English dictionary . Oxford University. 1856 . Retrieved 2014-11-22 . ... নূণ Salt ... ^ Edward Balfour, ed. (1873). Cyclopædia of India and of Eastern and Southern Asia, Volume 4 . Scottish & Adelphi presses . Retrieved 2014-11-22 . ... Noon-Dab, Hind., from Noon or loon, salt, and dabna, to dip, bespatter, or sprinkle, a custom among the Rajput races, of dipping the hand in the salt; the Noon-dab, is the most sacred pledge of good faith ... ^ Scaachi Koul (December 18, 2019). "The Crisis In Kashmir Has Started A Conversation I Don't Know How To Have" . BuzzFeed News . Archived from the original on April 12, 2022 . Retrieved April 12, 2022 . Kashmiri Pandits eat a ton of meat, we perfected rogan josh, we love nadru and tsiri tsot and sheer chai (this last one is truly one of our worst culinary contributions to the world and we should be ashamed). ^ a b D’Ulivo, Lucia (2018-01-01). "Solution to pink tea challenge" . Anal Bioanal Chem . 410 : 19–20. doi : 10.1007/s00216-017-0691-1 . S2CID 33962221 . External links [ edit ] Traditional noon chai recipe v t e Tea ( Camellia sinensis ) Common varieties Black tea Assam Bohea Ceylon Congou Darjeeling Dianhong Golden Monkey Jin Jun Mei Kangra Keemun Nilgiri Sikkim Tibeti Rize Yingdehong Oolong tea Bai Jiguan Ban Tian Yao Bu Zhi Chun Da Hong Pao Dong ding Dongfang meiren Gaoshan Huangjin Gui Huang Meigui Jin Xuan Qilan Pouchong Rougui Ruanzhi Shui Jin Gui Shui Hsien Tieluohan Tieguanyin Green tea Anji bai cha Aracha Baimao Hou Bancha Biluochun Chun Mee Dafang Genmaicha Lu'an Melon Seed Gunpowder Gyokuro Hōjicha Taiping houkui Huangshan Maofeng Hyson Kabusecha Kamairicha Konacha Kukicha Longjing Matcha Maojian Mecha Mengding Ganlu Sencha Shincha Tamaryokucha White tea Bai Mudan Baihao Yinzhen Shoumei Yellow tea Junshan Yinzhen Huoshan Huangya Fermented tea Pu-erh Doncha Lahpet Kombucha Blended or flavoured teas Earl Grey ( Lady Grey ) Breakfast tea ( English , Irish ) English afternoon tea Jasmine tea Lapsang souchong Masala chai Maghrebi mint tea Prince of Wales Russian Caravan Herbal tea [a] Chamomile Dried lime Ginger Guayusa Koththamalli Kuding Mate Rooibos General Australian British Ceylon Chinese Iranian Korean Nepali Taiwanese Turkish Vietnamese Culture Customs Afternoon/High tea/Evening meal Tea party Tasseography East Asian tea ceremony Chinese Yum cha Japanese Korean Taiwanese Ryukyuan Areas Tea garden Teahouse or tearoom Cha chaan teng Chashitsu Mizuya Sukiya-zukuri Roji By country American Arab Argentine Azerbaijani Brazilian British Chinese Dominican Hong Kong Indian Mexican Pakistani Russian Senegalese Taiwanese History China India Japan Production and distribution Leaf grading Processing Decaffeination Tasting Cultivation Diseases Predation Companies Consumption by country Auctions London Chittagong Guwahati By country Bangladesh Kenya Sri Lanka United States Preparation Flowering teas Infusion Decoction ISO procedure Steeping Tea bag Tea brick Health Health effects Phenolic content Compounds Caffeine Theanine Flavan-3-ol Catechin Epigallocatechin gallate Theaflavin Tea-based drinks Bubble tea Builder's tea Burmese milk tea Butter tea Cannabis tea Chifir Doodh pati chai Hong Kong-style milk tea Iced tea Arnold Palmer Jagertee Kahwah Lei cha Milk tea Noon chai Seven-layered tea Shahi haleeb Suutei tsai Sweet tea Teh tarik Thai tea Yuenyeung See also Teaware Chest Caddy Infuser Strainer Teacup Teapot Gaiwan Tea set Literature Tea classics Coffee List of Chinese teas Teas of related species Camellia japonica Camellia sasanqua Camellia taliensis Tea research Lipton Institute of Tea Tea Research and Extension Station ^ Herbal teas are not made from Camellia sinensis and thus are not technically considered tea. Drink Portal Category:Tea Coffee & Tea Task Force Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Noon_chai&oldid=1143231335 " Categories : Kashmiri cuisine Indo-Caribbean cuisine Blended tea Tea culture Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Articles needing additional references from December 2013 All articles needing additional references All articles lacking reliable references Articles lacking reliable references from February 2023 All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from