 Small coffeehouse in Bénouville, France Café Gondrée The Café Gondrée in 2009 Location Bénouville Coordinates 49°14′32.7″N 00°16′29.9″W ﻿ / ﻿ 49.242417°N 0.274972°W ﻿ / 49.242417; -0.274972 Coordinates : 49°14′32.7″N 00°16′29.9″W ﻿ / ﻿ 49.242417°N 0.274972°W ﻿ / 49.242417; -0.274972 Built 1892 The Café Gondrée is a small coffeehouse in the French community of Bénouville . The cafe is located on the west bank of the Caen Canal , at the northwest end of the Bénouville Bridge , now commonly referred to as the Pegasus Bridge. The building was the site of first combat during the D-Day invasion , and is best known for its role commemorating those events. History [ edit ] Howard's Horsa gliders landed a hundred yards from the bridge. The Café Gondrée can be seen in the background The Bénouville Bridge, 9 June 1944. Howard's wrecked gliders can be seen in the background The two-story red brick building was built at the end of the 19th century. [1] The nearby Bénouville Bridge was a key objective of the British 6th Airborne Division . A unit of Glider infantry of the division's 2nd Battalion was to land, take the bridge intact and hold it until relieved. The unit was led by Major John Howard . Howard and his men boarded three gliders. Released at 8,000 feet in the pitch black of a storm filled night, all three gliders managed to make a rough landing in a field almost directly on top of their objective. [2] Leaving the broken gliders, the men engaged in a short, fierce firefight which ended with the British paratroopers in control of the bridge. Three British paratroopers entered the café at 6:20 am on 6 June 1944, thereby liberating it. At the time of these events the café was run by Georges and Thérèse Gondrée. They had been involved in the French Resistance , and had passed on information about the defenses around the bridge to British intelligence through the French underground. [3] The successful taking of the bridge played an important role in limiting the effectiveness of a German counter-attack in the days and weeks following the Normandy invasion. With the passing of the Gondrées, ownership was taken over by their daughter, Arlette Gondrée, who was a little girl of 5 at the time of their liberation. [4] A determined, fiery woman, she is famously referred to simply as "Madame". [5] After the war [ edit ] Café Gondrée as approached from the bridge The structure is arguably the first French house to be liberated. After the war the café became a place of honor for the men who came and fought in the Normandy campaign. British paratroopers also celebrate the D-day anniversary at the café every 5 June. [6] Every June 5, at 11:16 pm, she offers champagne to the veterans present. The walls of the café are decorated with shoulder patch badges, regimental insignia, old uniforms, helmets and photos of the leaders of the operation. [7] The café was also a destination for speakers at the military lectures that the war colleges put on in Normandy in the summers each year. Officers involved in the Normandy battles were asked by the war colleges to return to Normandy and speak of their experiences fighting there, and included such men as Major General "Pip" Roberts , Brigadier David Stileman, Major John Howard and Colonel Hans von Luck , an officer with the 21st Panzer Division . [8] Because the owners were still severely anti-German, Howard covered for Luck by passing him off as Swedish. [9] The Café Gondrée still serves as a café, though it is now known as the Pegasus Bridge Café . On 5 June 1987 it was listed as an Historical Monument. [1] References [ edit ] Citations ^ a b Base Mérimée : Café Gondrée , Ministère français de la Culture. (in French) ^ Ambrose 2003 , pp. 96–113. ^ Merchet, Jean-Dominique (6 June 2012). "Secret Défense (French)" . The Wall Street Journal . Retrieved 13 April 2018 . ^ "The Gondrée family" . Pegasus archive . Retrieved 12 April 2018 . ^ Bennett, Will (27 April 1994). "Ban on D-Day Hero Fuels Acrimony (Corrected)" . Independent . Retrieved 13 April 2018 . ^ Fuchshuber, Thorsten (6 June 2004). "Man konnte das Meer nicht sehen (German)" [You could not see the sea]. Telepolis . Retrieved 12 April 2018 . ^ Von Reiner, Luyken (28 November 1997). "Die zweite Schlacht (German)" [The second battle]. Zeit Online . Retrieved 12 April 2018 . ^ "Obituary Brigadier David Stileman" . The Times . August 10, 2011 . Retrieved February 22, 2016 . ^ Ambrose 2003 , p. 198, "When Howard went to the café in the seventies and early eighties, he sometimes brought Hans von Luck with him. Howard told Madame that von Luck might look suspiciously like a German, but that he was in fact a Swede.". Bibliography Ambrose, Stephen E. (2003) [1985]. Pegasus Bridge . London: Simon and Schuster. ISBN 0-7434-5068-X . v t e Liberation of France Belgium Italy Luxembourg Netherlands Norway Forces Army of Africa Commando Kieffer First Army Cavalry Corps 3rd Army Corps 4th 5th 1st Armored 32nd Infantry Francs-Tireurs et Partisans Free French Forces French Forces of the Interior French Liberation Army French Expeditionary Corps Divisions: 1st Free French 2nd Moroccan Infantry 3rd Algerian Infantry 4th Moroccan Mountain Second Army Leaders Charles de Gaulle Jean Moulin Winston Churchill Bernard Montgomery Henri Giraud Dwight D. Eisenhower Raymond O. Barton George Patton Philippe Leclerc Jean de Lattre de Tassigny Philippe Kieffer Administration Empire Defense Council French Civil and Military High Command French National Committee French Committee of National Liberation Provisional Consultative Assembly Provisional Government French campaign Nov 1940 Battle of Gabon Jun 1941 Syria–Lebanon campaign Nov 1942 Operation Torch Tunisian campaign Battle of Réunion Sept 1943 Liberation of Corsica Jan 1944 Battle of Vercors Battle of Glières March 1944 Liberation of Limousin May 1944 Battle of Mont Mouchet Jun 1944 Battle of Normandy Battle of Carentan Battle of Cherbourg Battle of Caen Liberation of Limousin Tulle massacre Liberation of Guéret [ fr ] Oradour-sur-Glane massacre Maquis de Saint-Marcel Maquis de Saffré Battle of Ushant July 1944 Liberation of Saint-Lô Battle of Mont Gargan [ fr ] Operation Cobra Aug 1944 Battle for Brittany Rennes Saint-Malo Liberation of Brest Atlantic pockets : Lorient Saint-Nazaire Lioran [ fr ] Égletons [ fr ] Battle of Port Cros Battle of La Ciotat Provence landings Liberation of Toulon Liberation of Marseille Liberation of Paris Maillé massacre Liberation of Guéret [ fr ] Battle of Montélimar [ fr ] Liberation of Nice [ fr ] Sept 1944 Liberation of Nancy Operation Astonia Operation Undergo Atlantic pockets : La Rochelle Pointe de Grave Royan Dunkirk Battle of Arracourt Battle of Meximieux [ fr ] Nov 1944 - March 1945 Battle of Alsace Liberation of Strasbourg Colmar Pocket Bitche [ fr ] Apr 1945 Atlantic pockets : Royan Pointe de Grave May 1945 Atlantic pockets : Dunkirk La Rochelle Lorient Saint-Nazaire Aftermath End of Vichy 1945 municipal elections Advance to the Rhine Invasion of Germany End of World War II in Europe Victory in Europe Day Victory Day Provisional Government Épuration légale Épuration sauvage Tripartisme 1946 legislative election Fourth Republic Trente Glorieuses Trial of Philippe Pétain Klaus Barbie trial WW II theatres : Atlantic Western Front Eastern Front Mediterranean and Middle East Pacific Sino Japanese v t e French Resistance Belgium Denmark Germany Greece Italy Luxembourg Netherlands Norway Poland Creation and control Charles de Gaulle Appeal of 18 June Comité départemental de libération Empire Defense Council French National Committee French Committee of National Liberation National Council of the Resistance Provisional Consultative Assembly BCRA DGER Free France Free France Free French Forces Air Force Army of Africa Navy French Liberation Army Battles Koufra Bir Hakeim Gazala 1st Free French Division Companions of Liberation ( List ) Radio Londres Free French Africa Domestic operations Movements : Combat Franc-Tireur Francs-Tireurs et Partisans FTP–Foreign Labour Force French Forces of the Interior Libération-nord Libération-sud Mouvements unis Musée de l'Homme National Front Ceux de la Libération Ceux de la Résistance Networks : Alliance Organisation de résistance de l'armée Brutus Comet Line CdL Cinéma CLD Fer Mithridate [ fr ] Morhange Confrérie Notre-Dame Others: Armée secrète Organisation civile et militaire Jade-Amicol Jade-Fitzroy Maquis Vercors Clandestine press Bir-Hakeim [ fr ] Bulletin [ fr ] Combat Défense de la France Les Éditions de Minuit L'Espoir [ fr ] Franc-Tireur Front National L'Humanité Les Lettres Françaises Libération (nord) [ fr ] Libération (sud) Résistance [ fr ] Témoignage chrétien La Vérité française [ fr ] La Voix du Nord Free French Africa Brazzaville Conference Brazzaville manifesto French Chad Empire Defense Council Free French Africa French Cameroon French Congo French Gabon Marching Battalions [ fr ] Second [ fr ] Third [ fr ] Operation Marie Ubangi-Shari Liberation of France Kieffer commandos French Liberation Army 1st Army 2nd DB General de Lattre General Leclerc Liberation of France Liberation of Paris Liberation of Strasbourg Provisional Government Leaders Charles de Gaulle Jean Moulin Emmanuel d'Astier Pierre Brossolette Charles Delestraint Henri Frenay Marie-Madeleine Fourcade Jean-Pierre Lévy [ fr ] Pierre Villon Museums and Memorials Order of Liberation Companions Resistance Medal Medal of the Righteous Mémorial de la France combattante Museum of National Resistance [ fr ] Museums and memorials Musée de l'Ordre de la Libération Free France Foundation [ fr ] Portal Categories: ( French Resistance Films Members Networks and movements Righteous Among the Nations ) Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Café_Gondrée&oldid=1085697345 " Categories : Bascule bridges Buildings and structures in Calvados (department) Military history of France during World War II Military history of Normandy British airborne landings in Normandy World War II sites in France Tourist attractions in Calvados (department) Operation Overlord Coffeehouses and cafés in France Hidden categories: Articles with French-language sources (fr) Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Coordinat