 This article includes a list of general references , but it lacks sufficient corresponding inline citations . Please help to improve this article by introducing more precise citations. ( July 2013 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this template message ) 19th episode of the 3rd season of Star Trek: The Next Generation " Captain's Holiday " Star Trek: The Next Generation episode Episode no. Season 3 Episode 19 Directed by Chip Chalmers Written by Ira Steven Behr Featured music Dennis McCarthy Cinematography by Marvin Rush Production code 167 Original air date April 2, 1990 ( 1990-04-02 ) Guest appearances Jennifer Hetrick as Vash Karen Landry as Ajur Michael Champion as Boratus Max Grodénchik as Sovak Deidre Imershein as Joval Episode chronology ← Previous " Allegiance " Next → " Tin Man " Star Trek: The Next Generation (season 3) List of episodes " Captain's Holiday " is the 19th episode of the third season of the syndicated American science fiction television series Star Trek: The Next Generation , and the 67th episode of the series overall. Set in the 24th century, the series follows the adventures of the Starfleet crew of the Federation starship Enterprise-D . In this episode, Captain Jean-Luc Picard ( Patrick Stewart ) is talked into taking shore leave on the resort planet of Risa, where he finds himself drawn into an archeological adventure with a woman of questionable ethics ( Vash portrayed by Jennifer Hetrick ) and pursued by a nefarious Ferengi ( Max Grodénchik ). [1] Plot [ edit ] Strongly pressured by the crew of the Enterprise , Captain Picard reluctantly agrees to take a vacation on Risa, a pleasure planet. Shortly after he arrives, he is kissed by a woman he has never met, in her attempt to fend off a Ferengi named Sovak. Sovak accuses Picard of conspiring with the woman, Vash, who has in her possession a data disc that he wants. Picard has no interest in the quarrel and returns to his room to discover two "Vorgons" who identify themselves as time-traveling police agents from the 27th century, searching for a powerful weapon called the Tox Uthat capable of stopping the fusion reactions of a star. The 27th-century scientist who invented it traveled back in time to hide it. According to their historical records, Picard will locate this object on Risa. Picard confronts Vash about the Tox Uthat. She claims to be the former assistant of an archaeologist who discovered the location of the Uthat, gave her the disc for safekeeping, and died. Picard and Vash use the information on the disc to determine the Uthat's hiding place. When they arrive at the location where the Uthat is buried, the Vorgons appear to witness the discovery of the Uthat. Sovak then arrives with a phaser rifle and has Picard and Vash excavate the site at gunpoint for hours. However, the Uthat is not there. The Vorgons leave, confused because this doesn't line up with their historical record. Sovak, in his obsession, refuses to believe that the Uthat isn't there, throws away the rifle, and starts digging while Vash and Picard return to the resort. After their arrival, the Enterprise returns to pick up Picard. He catches Vash attempting to sneak away from the resort and surmises that she arrived days earlier, located the Uthat, and devised a ruse to fool Sovak into thinking the Uthat was lost. She reveals the hidden Uthat and the Vorgons reappear, demanding it. When Vash suggests that the Vorgons may have ulterior motives, Picard has the Enterprise use the transporter to destroy it. The disappointed Vorgons reveal that Picard has acted just as their records said by destroying the Uthat, admit defeat, and leave. Vash and Picard have a final intimate exchange before they say goodbye to each other. Releases [ edit ] The episode was released with Star Trek: The Next Generation season three DVD box set, released in the United States on July 2, 2002. [2] This had 26 episodes of Season 3 on seven discs, with a Dolby Digital 5.1 audio track. [2] It was released in high-definition Blu-ray in the United States on April 30, 2013. [3] Reception [ edit ] In 2010, Zack Handlen of The A.V. Club reviewed the episode and gave it a grade of B. [4] In 2012, Keith R.A. DeCandido of Tor.com gave the episode 3 out of 10. [5] In 2016, Geek.com described Risa as a "sex planet" and noted the focus on pleasure-oriented activities. [6] In 2018, Tom's Guide rated "Captain's Holiday" one of the 15 best episodes featuring Picard, also noting the introduction of the character Vash (played by actress Jennifer Hetrick). [7] CBR rated the relationship between Picard and Vash characters as the 12th best romance of Star Trek . [8] In 2019, Higgy Pop noted "Captain's Holiday" as one of the time travel stories of the Star Trek franchise. [9] In 2020, Vulture recommended as one of the best Star Trek episodes to watch along with Star Trek: Picard, noting " It’s not really a good episode, but it’s fun..". [1] They note this episode's focus on Picard's adventures on a pleasure planet, where his space vacation takes a turn for an Indiana Jones type adventure. See also [ edit ] Speculative fiction portal Television portal " Qpid ", an episode of Star Trek: The Next Generation extending the Vash storyline " Q-less ", an episode of Star Trek: Deep Space 9 concluding the Vash storyline " Two Days and Two Nights ", Star Trek: Enterprise episode featuring the pleasure planet Risa (following a recommendation in " Fallen Hero ") " The Game ", The Next Generation episode mentioning Risa in its premise " Let He Who Is Without Sin... ", Deep Space Nine episode set on Risa References [ edit ] ^ a b Phipps, Keith (January 27, 2020). "The 14 Best Star Trek Entries to Accompany Picard" . Vulture . Retrieved January 28, 2020 . ^ a b Beierle, Aaron (July 2, 2002). "Star Trek the Next Generation – Season 3" . DVD Talk . Archived from the original on August 19, 2016 . Retrieved May 7, 2016 . ^ Miller III, Randy (April 30, 2013). "Star Trek: The Next Generation – Season Three (Blu-ray)" . DVD Talk. Archived from the original on March 4, 2016 . Retrieved May 7, 2016 . ^ Zack Handlen (October 7, 2010). "Star Trek: The Next Generation: "Captain's Holiday"/"Tin Man" " . The A.V. Club . Archived from the original ( The A.V. Club ) on February 28, 2015 . Retrieved February 13, 2022 . ^ DeCandido, Keith R. A. (January 17, 2012). "Star Trek: The Next Generation Rewatch: "Captain's Holiday" " . Tor.com . Retrieved February 13, 2022 . ^ "Everything you need to know about Star Trek's sex planet, Risa" . Geek.com . June 20, 2016. Archived from the original on January 15, 2020 . Retrieved January 17, 2020 . ^ "The 15 Best Capt. Picard Episodes of Star Trek" . Tom's Guide . August 12, 2018 . Retrieved March 26, 2019 . ^ "Space Ships: The 15 Best Cases Of Star Trek Shipping" . CBR . February 18, 2017. ^ Higgypop. "Complete List Of Time Travel Storylines In Star Trek" . Higgypop . Retrieved January 16, 2020 . Star Trek The Next Generation DVD set, volume 3, disc 5, selection 3 External links [ edit ] Wikiquote has quotations related to "Captain's Holiday" . "Captain's Holiday" at IMDb "Captain's Holiday" at StarTrek.com "Captain's Holiday" at Memory Alpha Tox Uthat at Memory Alpha v t e Star Trek: The Next Generation episodes Seasons 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Season 3 " Evolution " " The Ensigns of Command " " The Survivors " " Who Watches the Watchers " " The Bonding " " Booby Trap " " The Enemy " " The Price " " The Vengeance Factor " " The Defector " " The Hunted " " The High Ground " " Deja Q " " A Matter of Perspective " " Yesterday's Enterprise " " The Offspring " " Sins of the Father " " Allegiance " " Captain's Holiday " " Tin Man " " Hollow Pursuits " " The Most Toys " " Sarek " " Ménage à Troi " " Transfigurations " " The Best of Both Worlds, Part I " v t e Star Trek time travel stories Star Trek: The Original Series " The Naked Time " " Tomorrow Is Yesterday " " The City on the Edge of Forever " " Assignment: Earth " " All Our Yesterdays " Star Trek: The Animated Series " Yesteryear " Star Trek: The Next Generation " We'll Always Have Paris " " Time Squared " " Yesterday's Enterprise " " Captain's Holiday " " A Matter of Time " " Cause and Effect " " Time's Arrow " " Timescape " " Parallels " " Firstborn " " All Good Things... " Star Trek: Deep Space Nine " Past Tense " " Visionary " " The Visitor " " Little Green Men " " Accession " " Trials and Tribble-ations " " Children of Time " " Wrongs Darker than Death or Night " " Time's Orphan " " The Sound of Her Voice " Star Trek: Voyager " Time and Again " " Eye of the Needle " " Non Sequitur " " Death Wish " " Future's End " " Before and After " " Year of Hell " " Timeless " " Relativity " " Fury " " Shattered " " Endgame " Star Trek: Enterprise " Cold Front " " Shockwave " " Future Tense " " Twilight " " Carpenter Street " " Azati Prime " " E² " " Zero Hour " " Storm Front " " In a Mirror, Darkly " Star Trek: Discovery " Magic to Make the Sanest Man Go Mad " Star Trek: Picard " Assimilation " " Watcher " Strange New Worlds "A Quality of Mercy" Films Star Trek IV: The Voyage Home Star Trek Generations Star Trek: First Contact Star Trek Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Captain%27s_Holiday&oldid=1145946068 " Categories : Star Trek time travel episodes Star Trek: The Next Generation (season 3) episodes 1990 American television episodes Fiction set in the 27th century Hidden categories: Articles lacking in-text citations from July 2013 All articles lacking in-text citations Use mdy dates from July 2013 Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Television episode articles with short description for s