 Burmese knife This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Dha" sword – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( February 2016 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this template message ) Burmese Sword (Dha) with scabbard; 19th century Dha ( Burmese : ဓား ; also spelled dah [1] ) is the Burmese word for "knife" and "sword" similar term to daab or darb ( Thai : ดาบ ) in Thai language for a single edge sword. The term dha is conventionally used to refer to a wide variety of knives and swords used by many people across Southeast Asia , especially present-day Myanmar ( Burma ), Thailand , Yunnan , Laos , Cambodia and Vietnam . [2] [ dead link ] Origins [ edit ] Soldiers at the Bayon temple(12th/13th century) wielding curved swords. Located at the ruins of Angkor . A man from Siam(Thailand) carrying a sheathed sword. This is from the boxer codex which is from around c.1590 A.D. A man from Kampuchea(Cambodia) wielding a curved sword. This is from the boxer codex which is from around c.1590 A.D. The broad use and diffusion of the dha across Southeast Asia makes it difficult to attribute a definitive origin. The dha may have its origins [ original research? ] with the Tai people who migrated to the area from present-day Yunnan Province in southern China. [ citation needed ] The Khmer and Mon peoples were well established before the arrival the Tai or the Burmese people; perhaps they invented the dha as 13th-century reliefs at Angkor depict the weapon. [ citation needed ] The history of the region includes many periods where one or the other of these groups dominated, bringing along their culture and weapons to conquered areas. [ citation needed ] Similar terms exist in the surrounding area with slightly different meanings. The Chinese word dao ( dou in Cantonese ) means knife but can refer to any bladed weapon with only one edge. From the Himalayas , the dao spread to Southeast Asia where it came into its present shape. While it is pronounced dha in Burmese , among Khmer -speakers it is known as dav (Khmer:ដាវ) and it may be related to the Malay words pedang and sundang , meaning sword. A related term, dap , means a long-handled sword in Malay . In Thailand, the dha corresponds to the krabi ( Thai : กระบี่ ) but the equivalent Thai term is daab which is usually a single-edge sword. [ citation needed ] The Kachin dha used by the Kachin people has a long blade which is around 18 inches. [3] Anatomy [ edit ] Burmese Sword (Dha) with scabbard and baldric; 19th century. Kachin man carrying a Kachin dha, circa 1900 Dha vary considerably according to locality but they share a few features that define them apart from other weapons and tools of the area. These features are a round cross-section grip, a long, gently curving blade (sometimes upward, other times downward in the direction of use) with a single edge, and no guard. Knives and swords with these characteristics are viewed by ethnic groups of the region as being of a single type, albeit with variations arising from local style and tradition. [4] There are a large number of possible shapes for the tip, with upswept, downswept, squared-off and spear-like varieties all being found. The blades are often inscribed, which can range from a simple maker's mark to quite intricate designs that may also feature inlays . Hilts range from hand-width to quite long. A blade/hilt length ratio of 2:1 is not uncommon. Despite these long handles, most dha are meant for single-handed use, although some two-handed weapons exist. Guards are small, if present at all. Thai daab [5] may have a guard similar to that of the Japanese katana . The montagnard dha may have a guard that barely exceeds the diameter of the handle and they can be regarded more as a spacer. The construction of the hilt varies widely by type and region or origin. Hilts range from simple wood, possibly wrapped in rattan or covered in ray skin, to elaborately worked silver and ivory . Pommels may or may not be present. Scabbards are made from two strips of wood, often bamboo, secured by metal bands, rattan (e.g., "village" dha), or completely wrapped in metal. [6] Sub-types [ edit ] Krabi-krabong practitioner with Daab song mue , Thai double swords. Shan dha Lanna Sword, Bangkok National Museum Collection of swords at Bangkok National Museum Burmese dha (ဓား); : The spine is straight (or mostly straight). Thai daab / darb (ดาบ) : The spine curves slightly. Laos daab / darb (ດາບ) : The spine curves significantly, and has more detailed carving and other tooling. Burmese Dha [ edit ] Nghat kyee taung dha (ငှက်ကြီးတောင်ဓား): A single edge sword with a sharp point Dha-hmyaung (ဓားမြှောင်): A dagger Dha-shay (ဓားရှည်): A long curved sword Dha-lwe (ဓားလွေ): A dha-shay worn over the shoulder in a scabbard Dha-ma (ဓားမ): A chopper or cleaver Dha-mauk (ဓားမောက်): A paring or utility knife Thai Daab [ edit ] Ayutthaya shape (Central) Daab na luk kai (ดาบหน้าลูกไก่): A blade shaped like a chicken's face. Daab na bua (ดาบหน้าบัว): A blade shaped like a lotus. Daab na pla lot (ดาบหน้าปลาหลด) or Daab na tat khong (ดาบหน้าตัดโค้ง): A blade similar in shape to the Daab na bua. Daab hua tat (ดาบหัวตัด): A blade without a pointy tip. Daab hua tat chiang (ดาบหัวตัดเฉียง): A blade similar to the Daab hua tat, however, it has a more slanted shape. Daab na hua laem (ดาบหน้าหัวแหลม): Also known as the Lao sword, this sword has a pointy tip Lanna shape (Northern) Daab ngao (ดาบง้าว): A blade with a ridged surface. Daab bai khaw (ดาบใบข้าว): A blade shaped like a rice leaves. Daab bai kha (ดาบใบคา): A blade shaped like a Daab bai khaw but more slender. See also [ edit ] Dao (sword) Dao (Naga sword) Hengdang Langgai Tinggang Sabre Banshay Krabi–krabong Kbach kun boran Chinese sword Turko-Mongol sabers Korean sword Japanese sword References [ edit ] ^ "dah" . Oxford English Dictionary (Online ed.). Oxford University Press . (Subscription or participating institution membership required.) ^ The Swords of Continental Southeast Asia ^ Goode, F. C. (2014). No Surrender in Burma: Operations Behind Japanese Lines, Captivity and Torture. Germany: Pen & Sword Books. ^ The Dha Research Index ^ "Traditional Thai Swords. Burmese Dha, Thai Dhaab Daab, Krabi Krabong" . Siam Blades . Retrieved 2023-02-02 . ^ George Cameron Stone (1999). A Glossary of the Construction, Decoration and Use of Arms and Armor in All Countries and in All Times . Mineola, New York: Dover. ISBN 0-486-40726-8 . . External links [ edit ] David J. Atkinson's private collection - Dha Sword Naga Sword-Daos The Dha Research Archive The Swords of Continental Southeast Asia v t e Sword types and classifications by region and historical era Swordsmanship Thrusting swords (Edgeless) Curved swords (Single-edge) Straight swords (Double-edge) Europe Prehistory Bronze Age sword Khopesh Ancient period Iron Age sword Harpe Gladius Xiphos Kopis / Falcata Makhaira Spatha Sica Rhomphaia Falx Post-classical period Migration Period sword Viking sword Arming sword Longsword Claymore Falchion Shashka Early modern period Zweihänder Spada da lato Katzbalger Cinquedea Estoc Espada ropera Swiss degen Colhona Late modern period Rapier Sabre Cutlass Basket-hilted sword Small sword Hunting sword Pistol sword Spadroon Sword bayonet China Ancient Jian Dao Medieval Dadao Hook sword Zhanmadao Ming – Qing Liuyedao Wodao Changdao Yanmaodao Modern Miaodao Korea Bronze Age – Gojoseon Liaoning bronze dagger Iron Age – Three Kingdom Era Hwandudaedo Goryeo and Joseon era Bonguk geom Wungeom Four Tiger Sword Japan Yayoi – Nara periods Chokutō Tsurugi Heian – Kamakura periods Tachi Ōdachi Kodachi Nagamaki Tantō Muromachi – Edo periods Wakizashi Katana Meiji period and beyond Guntō Iaitō Ninjatō Shikomizue India Ancient Khanda Urumi Aruval Medieval and modern Firangi Kastane Talwar Pulwar Kayamkulam vaal Pata Western and Central Asia Arab sword Scimitar type Turko-Mongol Sabre Kilij Shamshir Saif Yatagan Mameluke sword Indonesia Early period Mandau Niabor Parang Balato Gari Surik Late period Keris bahari Klewang Sundang Langgai Tinggang Parang Nabur Sikin Panjang Philippines Classical Balasiong Bangkung Banyal Barong Batangas Bicuco Binagong (Binangon) Bolo Dahong palay Garab Gayang Ginunting Gulok Kampilan Kalis Karambit Lahot Laring Panabas Parang Pirah Pinuti Sanduko Sansibar Sundang Susuwat Talibon Utak Wasay Spanish colonization Balisword Espada y daga Hagibis Tenegre Mainland Southeast Asia Classic stage Dha Post-Classic stage Krabi–krabong Cambodia Preah Khan Reach Thailand Phra Saeng Khan Chai Si Mesoamerica Pre-Columbian era Macuahuitl Macana Africa Ancient Egypt Khopesh Acinaces Mainland Ida Kaskara Nimcha Flyssa Shotel Billao Takoba Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Dha_(sword)&oldid=1137018793 " Categories : Southeast Asian swords Blade weapons Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Articles needing additional references from February 2016 All articles needing additional references Articles containing Burmese-language text Articles containing Thai-language text All articles with dead external links Articles with dead external links from January 2023 Pages using multiple image with auto scaled images All articles that may contain original research Articles that may contain original research from February 2021 All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from September 2021 Articles with unsourced statements fro